## Origins

Rhaenyra first took Syrax as a mount in [104 AC](wiki:104_AC), when the princess was seven years old. Syrax was described as a "young" dragon at the time, and Rhaenyra herself named her "Syrax" (after [a Valyrian goddess](wiki:Syrax_(goddess))) - strongly implying that Syrax had no previous rider.(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rfabheirs_of_the_dragon_-_a_question_of_succession.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-1)

Syrax laid "several" clutches of [eggs](wiki:Dragon_egg) during the reign of [Viserys I Targaryen](wiki:Viserys_I_Targaryen). One of her mates is believed to be [Caraxes](wiki:Caraxes).(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rtrotd7.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0) Her latest clutch was produced just prior to the civil war.(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_the_blacks_and_the_greens.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-1) One of the eggs from that latest clutch was given to [Rhaena Targaryen](wiki:Rhaena_Targaryen_(daughter_of_Daemon)), Rhaenyra's step-daughter. Rhaena's dragon [Morning](wiki:Morning) eventually hatched from one of Syrax's eggs.(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_the_blacks_and_the_greens.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-2)(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_the_short.2C_sad_reign_of_aegon_ii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-0)

Following Rhaenyra's difficult [stillbirth](wiki:Visenya_Targaryen_(daughter_of_Daemon)) at the beginning of the war, she was unable to fly on dragonback for a time. However, Rhaenyra recovered enough strength to fly on Syrax, along with her other dragonriders, when they [assaulted and captured](wiki:Fall_of_King's_Landing) King's Landing, facing little opposition.(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_triumphant.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-1)

In [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing), Syrax was kept within the walls of the [Red Keep](wiki:Red_Keep), in a stable in the outer ward that had been emptied of [horses](wiki:Horse) and given over for her use. Heavy chains bound her to the ground. The chains were long enough to allow her to move from the stable to yard, but kept her from flying off riderless. The three other dragons belonging to the [blacks](wiki:Blacks) were kept in the [Dragonpit](wiki:Dragonpit), along with the [greens](wiki:Greens)'s [Dreamfyre](wiki:Dreamfyre).(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_triumphant.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-2)

About the same time of the [Butcher's Ball](wiki:Butcher's_Ball), Ser [Byron Swann](wiki:Byron_Swann) set out to slay a dragon. According to the court [fool](wiki:Fool) [Mushroom](wiki:Mushroom), Byron was killed in an attempt to slay Syrax, a claim confirmed by Ser Byron's [squire](wiki:Squire). However, other sources suggested instead that Byron tried to kill [Aemond Targaryen](wiki:Aemond_Targaryen)'s dragon [Vhagar](wiki:Vhagar) or [Aegon II](wiki:Aegon_II_Targaryen)'s dragon [Sunfyre](wiki:Sunfyre).(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_triumphant.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-3)(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Radwd8.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-0)

Syrax was slain in the aftermath of the [Storming of the Dragonpit](wiki:Storming_of_the_Dragonpit). Prince [Joffrey Velaryon](wiki:Joffrey_Velaryon) had attempted to mount her to ride to the Dragonpit and save the other dragons from the mob, and perhaps mount his own dragon [Tyraxes](wiki:Tyraxes) there. Dragons are not horses, however, and they will only accept one rider during that rider's lifetime. In mid-flight, Syrax shrugged off Joffrey, who fell to his death. Attracted by the bloodshed at the Dragonpit, Syrax flew there. [Archmaester](wiki:Archmaester) [Gyldayn](wiki:Gyldayn) noted that Syrax could have simply stayed high in the air and made runs at the mob with her flames, but instead she descended upon the ground, killing dozens with tooth and claw. There are numerous and contradicting accounts about specifically how Syrax died, and Gyldayn does not give them in detail. What is certain, is that Syrax eventually died fighting the rioters.(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_overthrown.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-0)

## Appearances & Description

Syrax had yellow scales. She was huge and formidable, but not as fearsome or experienced in battle as [Caraxes](wiki:Caraxes).(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_the_blacks_and_the_greens.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-0) She was kept in chains and exceedingly well fed. At the time of the civil war called the [Dance of the Dragons](wiki:Dance_of_the_Dragons), Syrax had not hunted for years.(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_triumphant.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0)

## Narrative Arc

### A Dance with Dragons

During their voyage on the [Rhoyne](wiki:Rhoyne), [Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) and [Haldon Halfmaester](wiki:Haldon_Halfmaester) debate Ser Byron Swann's death, and whether he faced Syrax or Vhagar.(wiki:Syrax.cite_ref-Radwd8.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-1)
