---
name: "Regency of Aegon III"
type: event.battle
slug: regency-of-aegon-iii
aliases: []
confidence: tier-2
wiki_source: "https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Regency_of_Aegon_III"
bucket_id: tier3-pathb-events
prompt_version: v1-python
node_version: 1
pass_origin: pass2-wiki-deterministic
---

## Identity

Regency of Aegon III is a battle/event from the AWOIAF wiki.

## Edges


## Origins

### Beginning of the Regency[ ]

At the end of the Dance of the Dragons, Aegon III ascended the [Iron Throne](wiki:Iron_Throne) at the age of only ten, having lost most of his family members in the civil war including both of his parents. After witnessing the horrific death of his mother, [Rhaenyra Targaryen](wiki:Rhaenyra_Targaryen), late in the war, Aegon had become a quite sullen, melancholic boy who spent days alone brooding. He was used as a pawn as the [lords](wiki:Lord) and [regents](wiki:Regent) of the [small council](wiki:Small_council) all sought to gain a political stronghold.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-1)(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rfabaftermath_-_the_hour_of_the_wolf.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-0)
The regency of King Aegon started with seven individual regents, who became known as a council of seven. Of these seven regents, only [Grand Maester](wiki:Grand_Maester) [Munkun](wiki:Munkun) served during the entire regency. Other regents and [Hands of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King) resigned, were replaced, or died. Aegon's reign began in the second year of a harsh winter, which would last until [135 AC](wiki:135_AC). [Winter Fever](wiki:Winter_Fever) took several of Aegon's regents.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)
The first of Aegon's regents to pass was Lord [Corlys Velaryon](wiki:Corlys_Velaryon), who died in [132 AC](wiki:132_AC) of old age. His grandson and successor, Lord [Alyn Velaryon](wiki:Alyn_Velaryon), hoped to take his grandfather's place on the council but was denied. That same year, Lord [Royce Caron](wiki:Royce_Caron) gave up his place on the council. Ser [Torrhen Manderly](wiki:Torrhen_Manderly) gave up his place on the council as well that year, to return home to [White Harbor](wiki:White_Harbor), following the deaths of his father and brother from Winter Fever.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)
In [133 AC](wiki:133_AC), Winter Fever took Ser [Tyland Lannister](wiki:Tyland_Lannister), who had returned from the [Free Cities](wiki:Free_Cities) the year before, and had been named Hand of the King, a position which he held and fulfilled capably, despite his mutilations. Lord [Roland Westerling](wiki:Roland_Westerling), one of the regents, died in [133 AC](wiki:133_AC) of Winter Fever as well, and was subsequently replaced by Lord [Thaddeus Rowan](wiki:Thaddeus_Rowan).(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-4)
Lord [Unwin Peake](wiki:Unwin_Peake) had felt slighted when he had not been amongst the original seven regents. Yet in [132 AC](wiki:132_AC), he was given Lord Corlys Velaryon's position. He rose to the position of Hand in [133 AC](wiki:133_AC), following the death of Ser Tyland Lannister. In his position of power, he saw his kin hold many high office, and endeavored to weaken his rivals by any means at hand.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-5)
King Aegon III had married his cousin, Princess [Jaehaera Targaryen](wiki:Jaehaera_Targaryen), the sole surviving child of King [Aegon II Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_II_Targaryen), following the end of the civil war. She apparently killed herself in [133 AC](wiki:133_AC), when she threw herself out of her window and was impaled on the spikes of [Maegor's Holdfast](wiki:Maegor's_Holdfast). Whilst officially named a suicide, there are some who question the manner of her death. Some whisper that Jaehaera had been murdered, and one of the suspects named was Ser [Mervyn Flowers](wiki:Mervyn_Flowers) of the [Kingsguard](wiki:Kingsguard), the [bastard](wiki:Bastard) half-brother of Lord Unwin, who had been the guard at Jaehaera's door when she died. [Court-fool](wiki:Fool) [Mushroom](wiki:Mushroom) suggests that Mervyn did not do the deed himself, but had allowed for someone else to push her out of the window. Maester [Yandel](wiki:Yandel) speculates the assassin was [Tessario the Tiger](wiki:Tessario), a [sellsword](wiki:Sellsword) of the Free Cities in Lord Unwin's service.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-6)
Following the death of Queen Jaehaera, Lord Unwin attempted to marry his own daughter to King Aegon. When the regents stopped his attempts, the Hand arranged the [Maiden's Day Ball](wiki:Maiden's_Day_Ball), during which a thousand maids were presented to the king. Ladies [Rhaena](wiki:Rhaena_Targaryen_(daughter_of_Daemon)) and [Baela Targaryen](wiki:Baela_Targaryen) presented a cousin of theirs, Lady [Daenaera Velaryon](wiki:Daenaera_Velaryon), at the time only six years old. Aegon choose her as his new queen, which greatly frustrated Lord Peake. He attempted to have the king's choice put aside, but the other regents, as well as Aegon, opposed him. Unwin threatened to resign as Hand of the King in an attempt to bend the other regents to his will, but they were only happy to oblige. Thus Lord Peake's resignation was accepted and he was replaced as Hand by Lord [Thaddeus Rowan](wiki:Thaddeus_Rowan) in [134 AC](wiki:134_AC).(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-7)

### The Red Kraken[ ]

Lord [Dalton Greyjoy](wiki:Dalton_Greyjoy), the Red Kraken, had joined the [Dance of the Dragons](wiki:Dance_of_the_Dragons) on the side of Queen [Rhaenyra Targaryen](wiki:Rhaenyra_Targaryen), and had been allowed to raid the western coasts.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_ii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0) Though the war ended, [House Greyjoy](wiki:House_Greyjoy)'s raids from the [Iron Islands](wiki:Iron_Islands) did not.
Lord [Alyn Velaryon](wiki:Alyn_Velaryon), denied Lord [Corlys Velaryon](wiki:Corlys_Velaryon)'s place on the council, sailed with Ser [Gedmund Peake](wiki:Gedmund_Peake) against [Racallio Ryndoon](wiki:Racallio_Ryndoon) in the [Stepstones](wiki:Stepstones). While Gedmund waited at [Tarth](wiki:Tarth) for orders from Unwin, the Velaryons continued south and achieved a [great victory](wiki:Lord_Alyn's_attack) against Racallio's [Braavosi](wiki:Braavos) allies.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_war_and_peace_and_cattle_shows.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0) When Alyn returned to King's Landing, his newborn fame proved divisive. The regents, despite Unwin's protests, gave Alyn honors and rewards. Lord Peake in the end convinced the regents to dispatch Alyn to the [westerlands](wiki:Westerlands) to deal with Dalton, almost certainly hoping it would result in Alyn's death or defeat. Instead, it became the first of six great voyages by Alyn.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-8)
Dalton was eventually killed on [Fair Isle](wiki:Fair_Isle), when a girl named [Tess](wiki:Tess) opened his throat with a dagger. As Dalton had never married, a bloody struggle began within hours of his death. Lady [Johanna Lannister](wiki:Johanna_Lannister) extracted revenge for all the suffering of the westerlands in [134 AC](wiki:134_AC), when a Lannister force, with the aid of Ser [Leo Costayne](wiki:Leo_Costayne), attacked the Iron Islands.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_iron_islands:_the_red_kraken.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-0)

### Succession conflict in the Vale[ ]

Upon the death of Lady [Jeyne Arryn](wiki:Jeyne_Arryn) in [134 AC](wiki:134_AC) from an [illness](wiki:Illness), a succession war broke out in the [Vale of Arryn](wiki:Vale_of_Arryn) between three of her rival heirs: her fourth cousin and designated heir [Joffrey Arryn](wiki:Joffrey_Arryn), her spurned first cousin [Arnold Arryn](wiki:Arnold_Arryn), and her distant but wealthy cousin [Isembard Arryn](wiki:Isembard_Arryn). The Iron Throne tried to intervene but was hampered by poor planning and political infighting between the regents, resulting in heavy losses. [Gulltown](wiki:Gulltown) was taken only after costly house-to-house fighting. The fighting continued for over a year and only ended at the beginning of [136 AC](wiki:136_AC), about half a year before the end of Aegon III's regency.

### Return of Prince Viserys and the Lysene Spring[ ]

Aegon III's younger brother, Prince [Viserys Targaryen](wiki:Viserys_II_Targaryen), was believed dead by many. His return to [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing) was one of the few joys of Aegon's reign. Having been found in [Lys](wiki:Lys) by Lord [Alyn Velaryon](wiki:Alyn_Velaryon), a huge ransom was paid and the prince was allowed to return to [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing). With him, he brought his new wife, [Larra Rogare](wiki:Larra_Rogare), a wealthy daughter of the powerful and ambitious [Rogare family](wiki:Rogare_family). Larra's family owned the [Rogare Bank](wiki:Rogare_Bank), so powerful at the time that it was greater than the [Iron Bank of Braavos](wiki:Iron_Bank_of_Braavos).(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-9)
The Rogare family soon became involved in the conflicts of this period. Accusations of wrongdoing were spread back and forth by many parties. Lord [Thaddeus Rowan](wiki:Thaddeus_Rowan) was accused of treason and being involved in a plot with the Rogare family and was tortured for information. After these affairs, Ser [Marston Waters](wiki:Marston_Waters) of the [Kingsguard](wiki:Kingsguard) became [Hand of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King), and sent men to arrest Lady Larra after he arrested her brothers, [Lysaro](wiki:Lysaro_Rogare) and [Moredo](wiki:Moredo_Rogare). The young king Aegon defended his brother and his brother's wife and family, however, and refused to give her up, which led to a [secret siege](wiki:Secret_siege) in [Maegor's Holdfast](wiki:Maegor's_Holdfast) for eighteen days. Eventually, recalling his duty, Marston attempted to fulfil his king's command and arrest those who falsely implicated the Rogares and Lord Rowan. Ser Marston himself was killed attempting to arrest his sworn brother, Ser [Mervyn Flowers](wiki:Mervyn_Flowers).(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-10)

### End of Regency[ ]

[Grand Maester](wiki:Grand_Maester) [Munkun](wiki:Munkun) briefly took over as [Hand of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King) and restored order until new regents were appointed. Lord [Torrhen Manderly](wiki:Torrhen_Manderly) was made the new Hand, and [Willam Stackspear](wiki:Willam_Stackspear), [Marq Merryweather](wiki:Marq_Merryweather), and [Lorent Grandison](wiki:Lorent_Grandison) were chosen by a [Great Council](wiki:Great_Council) to serve on the council in [136 AC](wiki:136_AC).(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-11)
The regency ended on the day of King [Aegon III Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_III_Targaryen)'s sixteenth [name day](wiki:Name_day). The king entered the [small council](wiki:Small_council) chambers, accompanied by four knights of the [Kingsguard](wiki:Kingsguard) and the silent [Sandoq the Shadow](wiki:Sandoq_the_Shadow), and coldly dismissed all of the regents and his Hand.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aegon_iii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-12)(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rfabthe_lysene_spring_and_the_end_of_regency.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-0)

## Quotes

Six strong men and one wise woman, seven to rule us here on earth as the [Seven Above](wiki:Faith_of_the_Seven) rule all men from their heaven.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_the_hooded_hand.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-0)
Seven regents were six too many. Pity our poor king.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_the_hooded_hand.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-1)
Aegon: Lord Manderly, pray tell me how old I am, if you would be so good.
Torrhen: You are ten-and-six today, Your Grace. A man grown. It is time for you to take the governance of the [Seven Kingdoms](wiki:Seven_Kingdoms) into your own hands.
And thus the rule of the regents came to a whimpering end, as the broken reign of the broken king began.(wiki:Regency_of_Aegon_III.cite_ref-Rfabthe_lysene_spring_and_the_end_of_regency.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-2)
