---
name: "War of the Wombs"
type: event.war
slug: war-of-the-wombs
aliases: []
confidence: tier-2
wiki_source: "https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/War_of_the_Wombs"
bucket_id: tier3-pathb-events
prompt_version: v1-python
node_version: 1
pass_origin: pass2-wiki-deterministic
---

## Identity

War of the Wombs is a war from the AWOIAF wiki.

## Edges


## Origins

Lady [Ellyn Reyne](wiki:Ellyn_Reyne), daughter of Lord [Robert Reyne](wiki:Robert_Reyne), had been [betrothed](wiki:Betrothed) for years to [Tywald Lannister](wiki:Tywald_Lannister), the eldest son and heir to Lord [Gerold Lannister](wiki:Gerold_Lannister) of [Casterly Rock](wiki:Casterly_Rock). However, Ellyn's betrothed and father were slain during the [Peake Uprising](wiki:Peake_Uprising) in [233 AC](wiki:233_AC). Ellyn, unwilling to give up her dream of becoming the lady of Casterly Rock, seduced Tywald's younger twin brother and the new heir, [Tion](wiki:Tion_Lannister), persuading him to give up his betrothal to a daughter of Lord [Rowan](wiki:House_Rowan). Gerold, having witnessed how quickly Ellyn acted after the deaths of Robert and Tywald, opposed this match, but the ailing lord eventually let his son follow his heart.(wiki:War_of_the_Wombs.cite_ref-Rtwoiaf761_1-1)
Thus, in [235 AC](wiki:Years_after_Aegon's_Conquest), in a double wedding at [Casterly Rock](wiki:Casterly_Rock), Ellyn and Tion were married, while Tion's younger brother [Tytos](wiki:Tytos_Lannister) married Lady [Jeyne Marbrand](wiki:Jeyne_Marbrand), daughter of Lord [Alyn Marbrand](wiki:Alyn_Marbrand). Due to Gerold's health and his status as a widower, Ellyn, as the wife to his heir, became the Lady of Casterly Rock in all but name. As Gerold became less involved with ruling, retreating to his books and bedchamber, Ellyn hosted [tourneys](wiki:Tourney) and balls, and her splendid court was filled with musicians, artists, and [mummers](wiki:Mummer). Ellyn also used her new position to empower [House Reyne](wiki:House_Reyne). Her brothers [Roger](wiki:Roger_Reyne) and [Reynard](wiki:Reynard_Reyne) were ever at her side, and Ellyn lavished them with offices, honors, and lands. She did similar with her cousins, uncles, and other kin. [Lord Toad](wiki:Lord_Toad), Gerold's [fool](wiki:Fool), was heard to say, "Lady Ellyn must surely be a [sorceress](wiki:Magic), for she has made it rain inside the Rock all year."(wiki:War_of_the_Wombs.cite_ref-Rtwoiaf761_1-2)
In [236 AC](wiki:236_AC), Tion perished fighting in the [Fourth Blackfyre Rebellion](wiki:Fourth_Blackfyre_Rebellion), dying without issue. To prepare Tytos for rule, Lord Gerold became involved in the affairs of the [westerlands](wiki:Westerlands) again. Due to the [Widow's Law](wiki:Widow's_Law), Ellyn remained at the Rock, but her influence declined in favor of her rival, Tytos's wife, Jeyne.(wiki:War_of_the_Wombs.cite_ref-Rtwoiaf761_1-3) According to a semi-canon source, [knights](wiki:Knight) no longer begged tokens of her favor at [tourneys](wiki:Tourney), jewelers and dressmakers no longer lavished her with gifts in hopes of her patronage, and singers instead began to favor Jeyne, who had grown into a great beauty.(wiki:War_of_the_Wombs.cite_ref-sample_2-0) Per that same source, Lady Ellyn made an attempt to cling to her position, claiming to be pregnant by her late husband, but as months passed, she was seen to be a liar. Lord Toad was merciless in his mockery of Ellyn, angering Roger Reyne,(wiki:War_of_the_Wombs.cite_ref-sample_2-1) who soon departed Casterly Rock for [Castamere](wiki:Castamere), accompanied by his brother and many of the other Reynes.(wiki:War_of_the_Wombs.cite_ref-Rtwoiaf761_1-4) According to a semi-canon source, Lord Toad rejoiced that the "Reign of the Reynes" was over.(wiki:War_of_the_Wombs.cite_ref-sample_2-2)
In [239 AC](wiki:Years_after_Aegon's_Conquest), the rivalry turned ugly. According to [Beldon](wiki:Beldon), the [maester](wiki:Maester) at Casterly Rock, Ellyn attempted to [bed](wiki:Bedding) Tytos, urging him to [set aside](wiki:Marriage) his wife and marry her instead. However, Tytos found Ellyn so intimidating that he was unable to perform, and ran to his wife to confess and beg her forgiveness. Lady Jeyne was willing to pardon her husband, but was less forgiving of Ellyn, and quickly informed Lord Gerold of the incident. Within a fortnight, Lord Gerold had Ellyn wed to the twice-widowed [Walderan Tarbeck](wiki:Walderan_Tarbeck), the fifty-five-year-old Lord of [Tarbeck Hall](wiki:Tarbeck_Hall). Ellyn Reyne, now Lady Tarbeck, departed Casterly Rock with her husband, never to return.(wiki:War_of_the_Wombs.cite_ref-Rtwoiaf761_1-5)

## Aftermath

Following Lord Gerold's death in [244 AC](wiki:Years_after_Aegon's_Conquest), Tytos inherited his father's titles, but was an ineffectual ruler, with a desire to be liked by all. Though Ellyn was still unwelcome in Casterly Rock, Lord Tytos found it difficult to refuse her brother, Roger Reyne, and the Tarbecks received large loans of Lannister [gold](wiki:Gold). Ellyn used the money to restore the ancient but impoverished [Tarbeck Hall](wiki:Tarbeck_Hall) and expand their lands. Due to Tytos's weak rule, both [House Reyne](wiki:House_Reyne) and [House Tarbeck](wiki:House_Tarbeck) prospered as House Lannister declined.(wiki:War_of_the_Wombs.cite_ref-Rtwoiaf761_1-9)
Tensions between the Reynes, Tarbecks, and Lannisters would fester, until it came to a head in [261 AC](wiki:261_AC), when Ser Tywin Lannister demanded all loans given out by Casterly Rock to be repaid. Lord Tarbeck refused, and traveled to Casterly Rock to negotiate, upon which Tywin arrested him. In response, Ellyn took two [Lannisters of Lannisport](wiki:House_Lannister_of_Lannisport) and [Stafford Lannister](wiki:Stafford_Lannister) of Casterly Rock captive, and demanded the return of her husband. Late that same year, Ser Tywin summoned Lord [Roger Reyne](wiki:Roger_Reyne), his brother Ser [Reynard](wiki:Reynard_Reyne), Lord Tarbeck, and Lady Ellyn to Casterly Rock, so that they could answer for their crimes. Both Houses Reyne and Tarbeck refused, and rose in a [revolt](wiki:Reyne-Tarbeck_revolt) that would see the extinction of both houses at the hands of Tywin Lannister.(wiki:War_of_the_Wombs.cite_ref-Rtwoiaf761_1-10)
