## Appearances & Description

Alfred had a sullen disposition and a sour manner.(wiki:Alfred_Broome.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_overthrown.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0)

## Origins

Alfred joined the garrison of [Dragonstone](wiki:Dragonstone) during the reign of the Old King, [Jaehaerys I Targaryen](wiki:Jaehaerys_I_Targaryen). By the time civil war broke out between [Rhaenyra Targaryen](wiki:Rhaenyra_Targaryen) and [Aegon II Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_II_Targaryen), Alfred was the most senior knight of Dragonstone. When Rhaenyra led the [blacks](wiki:Blacks) to [capture King's Landing](wiki:Fall_of_King's_Landing), she named Ser [Robert Quince](wiki:Robert_Quince) as castellan of Dragonstone, rather than the sullen Alfred.(wiki:Alfred_Broome.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_overthrown.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-1)
Unbeknownst to Rhaenyra, Aegon and later his [dragon](wiki:Dragon), [Sunfyre](wiki:Sunfyre), went into hiding on the island of Dragonstone. Aegon's supporters, the [greens](wiki:Greens), were able to find potential allies amongst the castle's garrison.(wiki:Alfred_Broome.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_overthrown.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-2) Ser Alfred was convinced by promises of [lordship](wiki:Lord), lands, and wealth.(wiki:Alfred_Broome.cite_ref-Rtrotd82.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0) He participated in the coup against Robert, personally slaying the castellan with a spear. After the duel between Sunfyre and [Moondancer](wiki:Moondancer), Ser [Marston Waters](wiki:Marston_Waters) prevented Alfred from slaying Moondancer's dragonrider, [Baela Targaryen](wiki:Baela_Targaryen).(wiki:Alfred_Broome.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_overthrown.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-3)
When Rhaenyra and her few remaining companions [returned to Dragonstone](wiki:Flight_to_Dragonstone) after the [storming of the Dragonpit](wiki:Storming_of_the_Dragonpit), Alfred led the forty-strong escort that accompanied her from the port to the castle. When they arrived at the castle, Rhaenyra was shocked to see the charred corpse of Robert. Alfred had his men slay Rhaenyra's remaining [Queensguard](wiki:Queensguard)—Ser [Harrold Darke](wiki:Harrold_Darke), Ser [Adrian Redfort](wiki:Adrian_Redfort), and Ser [Loreth Lansdale](wiki:Loreth_Lansdale)—although the latter knight slew two of Alfred's guards. Alfred's cloak caught fire when Sunfyre bathed Rhaenyra with flame. Alfred advised Aegon II to kill Rhaenyra's son, [Aegon III Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_III_Targaryen), but the king decided to keep the boy as a hostage.(wiki:Alfred_Broome.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_overthrown.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-4)
Ser Alfred accompanied Aegon II when the king returned to King's Landing. He beheaded [Trystane Truefyre](wiki:Trystane_Truefyre) after the latter was sentenced to die for treason.(wiki:Alfred_Broome.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_the_short.2C_sad_reign_of_aegon_ii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)
Ser Alfred was present at the [council](wiki:Small_council) meeting following the [green](wiki:Greens) defeat at the [Battle of the Kingsroad](wiki:Battle_of_the_Kingsroad). After Aegon II refused to surrender and Queen [Alicent Hightower](wiki:Alicent_Hightower) suggested mutilating one of the ears of the hostage [Aegon the Younger](wiki:Aegon_the_Younger), the king ordered Alfred to carry out the order. However, when Alfred crossed the drawbridge to [Maegor's Holdfast](wiki:Maegor's_Holdfast), he found Ser [Perkin the Flea](wiki:Perkin_the_Flea) and six of his gutter knights blocking the way. Alfred demanded they move aside in the king's name. Perkin answered that there was a new king, put a hand upon on Alfred's shoulder, and shoved him off the drawbridge onto the iron spikes below. Alfred agonized for two days, writhing and twisting, before dying.(wiki:Alfred_Broome.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_the_short.2C_sad_reign_of_aegon_ii.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)
