## Appearances & Description

Small Paul is a large man, although he weighs less then [Samwell Tarly](wiki:Samwell_Tarly).(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasos46.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-0) He has a broad brutal face with a flat, squashed pug nose, and small dark eyes.(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasos18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-1)(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasosprologue.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-1) He has a coarse, thick brown beard that covers most of his face.(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasos18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-2)(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasosprologue.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-2)

Although he is a [simpleton](wiki:Lackwit), Paul is the strongest man on the [Wall](wiki:Wall), once breaking the back of a wildling with a hug.(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasos18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-3)(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasosprologue.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-3) However, he is normally gentle, and does not know his own strength. He dislikes being called stupid.(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasosprologue.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-4) Paul likes [animals](wiki:Bestiary); he wants to take care of [Mormont's raven](wiki:Mormont's_raven)(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasosprologue.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-5) and attacks an [Other](wiki:Others) for killing a [horse](wiki:Horse).(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasos18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-4)

## Narrative Arc

### A Storm of Swords

Small Paul is part of the [great ranging](wiki:Great_ranging) which leaves [Castle Black](wiki:Castle_Black) in search of the [wildlings](wiki:Wildlings). His part in [Chett](wiki:Chett)'s conspiracy is to kill [Jeor Mormont](wiki:Jeor_Mormont), [Lord Commander of the Night's Watch](wiki:Lord_Commander_of_the_Night's_Watch), with the help of [Softfoot](wiki:Softfoot). Paul plans to take [Mormont's raven](wiki:Mormont's_raven) for his own.(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasosprologue.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-6)

After the [fight at the Fist](wiki:Fight_at_the_Fist), the remnant of the Night's Watch retreat in disorder to the [Wall](wiki:Wall). During the retreat [Samwell Tarly](wiki:Samwell_Tarly) tires and wants to be left behind, but Paul carries him. Paul asks Sam for a raven as a pet, but all were released at the Fist. A tiring Paul, Sam, and [Grenn](wiki:Grenn) are eventually overtaken by an [Other](wiki:Others) who rides a dead horse that belonged to a man of the Night's Watch. Grenn and Paul attack the Other, which breaks Grenn's sword and then kills Paul. As he dies Paul crashes into the Other, tearing the sword from its hands. This allows Sam to stab the Other with his [obsidian](wiki:Obsidian) dagger. The Other melts in seconds from contact with the dagger. Grenn checks if Small Paul is really dead and closes his eyes. He and Samwell then travel on to [Craster's Keep](wiki:Craster's_Keep).(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasos18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-5)

At Craster's Keep, [Craster](wiki:Craster) and Jeor Mormont are [killed in a mutiny](wiki:Mutiny_at_Craster's_Keep). Samwell flees again with [Gilly](wiki:Gilly), a daughter of Craster's, and her [infant son](wiki:Monster). While making their way to the Wall, Paul, who has been turned into a [wight](wiki:Wight), comes after them. According to Gilly, the wight has come for the baby. Sam tries to talk with the wight, partly because he hopes that the undead Small Paul can remember his life, partly so Gilly has time to flee. The wight does not respond, however, and walks to Gilly and her baby. Sam then uses the obsidian dagger, but it has no effect. The wight begins to strangle Sam, but at the last moment he smashes Paul with a chunk of smoldering wood. The flames burn the wight and, after escaping, Sam notices that the blue glow of a wight has left the eyes of Paul's corpse.(wiki:Small_Paul.cite_ref-Rasos46.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-1)
