## Narrative Arc

On the way to the cove where [Nimble Dick](wiki:Dick_Crabb) led the fool and his two companions, [Pod](wiki:Podrick_Payne) catches Dick looking through [Brienne's](wiki:Brienne_of_Tarth) saddlebags. She knew something like this might happen, and warned Pod to keep an eye on him. But having no recourse but to follow Dick, Brienne and Pod continue on their path to [Crackclaw Point](wiki:Crackclaw_Point). Dick tells them some of the history of the region, to pass the monotony of their journey. Brienne's mistrust of Dick has made him take notice, and she considers how easy it is for her to suspect others, after the mistreatments she has suffered in her life. She remembers getting her revenge on several of her false suitors during the mêlée at [Bitterbridge](wiki:Bitterbridge), but this has done little to stay her natural distrust.

As they pass the [Dyre Den](wiki:Dyre_Den), Lord [Brune](wiki:House_Brune_of_the_Dyre_Den)'s castle, Pod takes note of a rider a couple miles behind them. When Brienne learns that Dick may have known Lord Brune, she considers the possibility that Dick is a deserter from the war. After passing through many a treacherous bog and forest, they finally arrive at the ruins of [the Whispers](wiki:Whispers). Brienne commands Pod to watch their horses, as she and Dick investigate the ruins. When they find a recently put-out cookfire, Brienne realizes their quarry is still around.

The trap is soon sprung, and the fool turns out to be [Shagwell](wiki:Shagwell) of the [Bloody Mummers](wiki:Bloody_Mummers). Shagwell kills Nimble Dick with his brutal morningstar, then informs Brienne that [Urswyck](wiki:Urswyck) rode south to [Oldtown](wiki:Oldtown) with some of the Mummers, while [Rorge](wiki:Rorge) headed for [Saltpans](wiki:Saltpans). He also reveals a rumor that the "[daughter of Lord Stark](wiki:Arya_Stark)" has last been seen with [Sandor Clegane](wiki:Sandor_Clegane).

When Shagwell's two companions attack, Brienne's strength and size are too much for [Pyg](wiki:Pyg) and [Timeon](wiki:Timeon), who fall quickly to her strokes with [Oathkeeper](wiki:Oathkeeper). Squaring off against Shagwell, the Fool is struck in the head by a stone thrown by Podrick. Brienne forces the Fool to dig a grave for Dick, but upon completion of it, the former Brave Companion attacks her. She quickly dispatches him as well. After killing him, she leaves two gold dragons on Dick's grave, and is then surprised to hear a laugh from the ruined wall. It is Ser [Hyle Hunt](wiki:Hyle_Hunt), the rider who Pod had spied, sent by [Randyll Tarly](wiki:Randyll_Tarly) to stay at Brienne's side in the off chance that she finds [Sansa](wiki:Sansa_Stark).
