## Narrative Arc

An honor procession flanks Lord [Tywin](wiki:Tywin_Lannister)'s casket as it heads west, led by many of the Lannister bannermen.(wiki:A_Feast_for_Crows-Chapter_16.cite_ref-1) [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) falls in with his uncle [Kevan](wiki:Kevan_Lannister), and they discuss the [raid on Saltpans](wiki:Raid_on_Saltpans). Jaime cautions his uncle not to try and take on [Sandor Clegane](wiki:Sandor_Clegane) or [Beric Dondarrion](wiki:Beric_Dondarrion), and that he would have made a good [Hand](wiki:Hand_of_the_King). Kevan rejects him coolly, and lets Jaime know he knows about the relationship of the twins, Jaime and Queen [Cersei Lannister](wiki:Cersei_Lannister).

As Jaime returns to [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing), he looks upon the encamped Lannister army, which will soon board the [Redwyne fleet](wiki:Redwyne_fleet) to lay siege to [Dragonstone](wiki:Dragonstone). He finds his sister in her solar as Grand Maester [Pycelle](wiki:Pycelle) delivers news that Ser [Bronn](wiki:Bronn) has named [Lollys](wiki:Lollys_Stokeworth)'s bastard newborn "[Tyrion](wiki:Tyrion_Tanner)". Jaime realizes that his sister may try to have Bronn killed for this jape, and he recalls the look on her face the night of [Tommen](wiki:Tommen_Baratheon)'s wedding when the [Tower of the Hand](wiki:Tower_of_the_Hand) was aflame. This called to mind the madness of King [Aerys](wiki:Aerys_II_Targaryen) and the way he would become aroused by fire. Jaime recalls Aerys's rape of [his wife](wiki:Rhaella_Targaryen) the evening he had Lord [Chelsted](wiki:Qarlton_Chelsted) burned alive. Jaime had the guard of the queen's bedchamber when she was screaming for her husband to stop. When Jaime said that they were sworn to protect her too, his partner that night, Ser [Jonothor Darry](wiki:Jonothor_Darry), replied, "We are, but not from him."

Jaime asks to speak with Cersei alone, and asks her why she keeps Lady [Taena](wiki:Taena_of_Myr) around all the time, knowing that she is a spy for [Margaery](wiki:Margaery_Tyrell). Cersei responds that Taena is more her spy, considering that the Queen Regent can do more for the [Merryweather family](wiki:House_Merryweather). Jaime cautions that she doesn't truly know the woman, but Cersei remarks that she may make [Taena's husband](wiki:Orton_Merryweather) the Hand. After Jaime asks her about the rumor that she plans to name [Aurane Waters](wiki:Aurane_Waters) her new master of ships, he recommends that she would be better off naming [Paxter Redwyne](wiki:Paxter_Redwyne). But Cersei will not put any Tyrell vassals on her small council. Cersei also defends her choice of [Qyburn](wiki:Qyburn), a disgraced and twisted maester, to join the council. Cersei's growing paranoia and brutality are becoming more evident and Jaime retorts, "You are seeing dwarfs in every shadow and making foes of friends. Uncle Kevan is not your enemy. *I* am not your enemy." However, Cersei throws him out of her solar in fury.(wiki:A_Feast_for_Crows-Chapter_16.cite_ref-2)

In the White Sword Tower, Jaime speaks with Ser [Loras Tyrell](wiki:Loras_Tyrell), asking him what he knows of certain famous Kingsguard. Loras is well-versed, but when the Lord Commander mentions some lesser-known Kingsguard, the Knight of Flowers does not recognize their names. Jaime points out that all of them served well, perhaps even better than the famous knights. Loras remarks that the great Kingsguard knights will always be remembered as heroes, but Jaime reminds him that the most infamous will also be remembered. And then there are those who are not easily classified, of which he offers as an example [Criston Cole](wiki:Criston_Cole), the Kingmaker.
