## Narrative Arc

[Victarion Greyjoy](wiki:Victarion_Greyjoy)'s *[Iron Victory](wiki:Iron_Victory)* has rammed one of the longships of the [Shield Islands](wiki:Shield_Islands). Victarion kills Ser [Talbert Serry](wiki:Talbert_Serry) of [Southshield](wiki:Southshield), although the reaver's hand is wounded during the battle. The [ironborn](wiki:Ironborn)'s massive fleet is soon victorious in their [taking of the Shields](wiki:Taking_of_the_Shields) which sit at the mouth of the [Mander](wiki:Mander) north of the city of [Oldtown](wiki:Oldtown). It is Victarion's command that won the battle, but it will be King [Euron](wiki:Euron_Greyjoy) they cheer for engineering their bold attack. Back in his cabin, as the [dusky woman](wiki:Dusky_woman) Euron gave him tends his wounds, Victarion recalls [Aeron](wiki:Aeron_Greyjoy)'s words that he would find a way to remove Euron from the [Seastone Chair](wiki:Seastone_Chair). He remembers how he had helped capture Lord [Baelor Blacktyde](wiki:Baelor_Blacktyde), who had refused to acknowledge Euron after the [kingsmoot on Old Wyk](wiki:Kingsmoot_on_Old_Wyk) and paid for it with his life. [Asha](wiki:Asha_Greyjoy), however, had escaped the [Iron Islands](wiki:Iron_Islands) along with those loyal to her.

Landing at [Lord Hewett's Town](wiki:Lord_Hewett's_Town) on [Oakenshield](wiki:Oakenshield), the Lord Captain meets the [Reader](wiki:Rodrik_Harlaw) and the [Drumm](wiki:Dunstan_Drumm). Both are worried that Euron's little conquest will bring ruin down upon them, as surely [Highgarden](wiki:Highgarden) will respond. At the feast, Victarion notes that Euron has shamed Lord [Humfrey Hewett](wiki:Humfrey_Hewett) and his wife and daughters. The recently crowned king then raises [Harras Harlaw](wiki:Harras_Harlaw), [Andrik the Unsmiling](wiki:Andrik_the_Unsmiling), [Maron Volmark](wiki:Maron_Volmark), and [Nute the Barber](wiki:Nute_the_Barber) to Lords of the Four Shields, effectively stealing away the lieutenants of his adversaries.

Euron declares that they will sail the next day with provisions plundered from the Shield Islands; selling the slaves they had just taken in the [Free Cities](wiki:Free_Cities) on their way to find the [dragons](wiki:Dragon) he had promised. But many of the captains object, stating that they should attack Oldtown or the [Arbor](wiki:Arbor), and Euron stalks from the hall. Soon, one of Euron's bastard sons tells the iron captain that the king wishes to see him.

In his room, Euron tells his brother that the Reader was correct that the whole fleet could never reach [Slaver's Bay](wiki:Slaver's_Bay) together. He believes that the Iron Fleet alone could, however, and promises his brother the Seastone Chair as reward if he sails to [Slaver's Bay](wiki:Slaver's_Bay) and returns with [Daenerys](wiki:Daenerys_Targaryen). Euron means to marry her and ascend to the [Iron Throne](wiki:Iron_Throne). With Lord Blacktyde's words that *Euron was maddest of them all* on his mind, Victarion agrees to go, thinking to himself,

> You stole [my wife](wiki:Victarion_Greyjoy's_third_wife) and despoiled her, so I'll have yours.
