## Origins

Around [268 AC](wiki:Years_after_Aegon's_Conquest), Lord [Steffon Baratheon](wiki:Steffon_Baratheon) first took his young son, [Stannis](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon), to court at King's Landing, along with his eldest son, [Robert](wiki:Robert_Baratheon). The children were greatly impressed by the fearsome dragon skulls on the walls of the throne room.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos54.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_18-0)
In [283 AC](wiki:283_AC), during the [Sack of King's Landing](wiki:Sack_of_King's_Landing), the [Kingsguard](wiki:Kingsguard) Ser [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) slew King [Aerys II Targaryen](wiki:Aerys_II_Targaryen) in the throne room beneath the empty eyes of the dragon skulls.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos11.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_19-0) Lord [Eddard Stark](wiki:Eddard_Stark) arrived a short time later, riding down the length of the hall beneath the rows of dragon skulls, to find the [Kingslayer](wiki:Kingslayer) seated on the [Iron Throne](wiki:Iron_Throne).(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot12.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-2)
After the fall of House Targaryen in [Robert's Rebellion](wiki:Robert's_Rebellion), King [Robert I Baratheon](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon) took down the dragon skulls from the walls of the throne room,(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot13.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-10) but could not condone their destruction.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos54.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_18-1) The skulls were stored in a cellar in the Red Keep, and Robert decorated the walls of the throne room with [banners](wiki:Banner) and [tapestries](wiki:Tapestry) instead.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot13.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-11)
In [284 AC](wiki:284_AC), when [Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) visited King's Landing for the first time, for his sister [Cersei](wiki:Cersei_Lannister)'s [wedding](wiki:Wedding) to King Robert, he sought out the storage cellar of the dragon skulls. Tyrion found the skulls impressive, frightening, and beautiful, and sensed that they liked the fire of the torch he shone on them. He also felt like the skulls' empty eyes were watching him.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot13.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-12)

## Narrative Arc

### A Game of Thrones[ ]

Lord [Eddard Stark](wiki:Eddard_Stark) explains to King [Robert Baratheon](wiki:Robert_Baratheon) why he is distrustful of Ser [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister). He tells Robert how he arrived at the [Red Keep](wiki:Red_Keep) and rode though the hall of the [Iron Throne](wiki:Iron_Throne), watched by the dragon skulls on the walls, and found Jaime seated on the throne, with King [Aerys II Targaryen](wiki:Aerys_II_Targaryen) slain on its steps.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot12.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-3)
On the way to the [Wall](wiki:Wall), [Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) reads about the properties of [dragonbone](wiki:Dragonbone), and remembers seeking out the dragon skulls in [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing) the first time he was there.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot13.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-13)
When [Arya Stark](wiki:Arya_Stark) is mistaken for a [smallfolk](wiki:Smallfolk) boy while chasing [cats](wiki:Cat) in the Red Keep, and is chased herself by [red cloaks](wiki:Red_cloaks), she escapes through a low narrow window into a dark cellar. After her eyes adjust to the gloom, she finds the dragon skulls all around her. Initially she is afraid, but she soon overcomes her fear, and makes her way over to touch one of the "monsters". She can tell it is [bone](wiki:Dragonbone) and that it is dead, but has a feeling that something is there that does not love her. When one of the skulls' sharp teeth catches at her clothing, Arya flees from the room, leaping through [Balerion](wiki:Balerion)'s skull to reach the door. From there, Arya makes her way through one of the [secret passages](wiki:Secret_passages) of the Red Keep, overhears a conversation between [Varys](wiki:Varys) and [Illyrio Mopatis](wiki:Illyrio_Mopatis), and finds the exit in King's Landing through a sewer, far from the castle. When Arya tries to tell her father, Eddard Stark, about the conversation she overheard, she mentions the "monsters" and how one man called the other a [wizard](wiki:Wizard), and Eddard dismisses the story as [mummery](wiki:Mummer).(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot32.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-5)
During the [arrest of Eddard Stark](wiki:Arrest_of_Eddard_Stark) and the massacre of his men, Arya escapes the Red Keep by fleeing to the cellar of the dragon skulls to access the secret passage. She carries a candle, and in the light recognizes the "monsters" as dragons. They do not frighten her this time.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot50.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-1)

### A Clash of Kings[ ]

In [Qarth](wiki:Qarth), in the [House of the Undying](wiki:House_of_the_Undying), [Daenerys Targaryen](wiki:Daenerys_Targaryen) has a [vision](wiki:Vision) of the past, in which she sees the Red Keep's throne room, the dragon skulls on its walls.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Racok48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-1)

### A Storm of Swords[ ]

[Arstan Whitebeard](wiki:Arstan_Whitebeard) tells Daenerys Targaryen that he served for a time in [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing), and walked beneath the dragon skulls that looked down from the walls of King [Aerys II Targaryen](wiki:Aerys_II_Targaryen)'s throne room. Dany tells him that her brother [Viserys](wiki:Viserys_Targaryen) talked about those skulls, saying that the [Usurper](wiki:Usurper) took them down and hid them away, as Robert could not bear them looking down on him upon his stolen throne.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos8.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_20-0)
When considering the possibility that [dragons](wiki:Dragon) could be reborn, [Stannis Baratheon](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) recalls the time that his father [Steffon](wiki:Steffon_Baratheon) first took him to court, along with his brother Robert, and they saw the dragon skulls in the Red Keep.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos54.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_18-2)
The morning of King [Joffrey Baratheon](wiki:Joffrey_Baratheon)'s wedding to [Margaery Tyrell](wiki:Margaery_Tyrell), [Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) and his mistress [Shae](wiki:Shae) have a rendezvous in the cellar amongst the dragon skulls. They play [monsters-and-maidens](wiki:Monsters-and-maidens) in the dark, before Shae allows herself to be caught.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos58.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-1)
At Tyrion's trial for the [murder of Joffrey at his wedding feast](wiki:Purple_Wedding), Shae claims Tyrion took her to the room of the dragon skulls to threaten her, and admitted his plans to kill Joffrey.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos70.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_21-0)

## Quotes

I rode the length of the hall in silence, between the long rows of dragon skulls. It felt as though they were watching me, somehow.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot12.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-4)
He had expected to find them impressive, perhaps even frightening. He had not thought to find them beautiful. Yet they were. As black as [onyx](wiki:Onyx), polished smooth, so the [bone](wiki:Dragonbone) seemed to shimmer in the light of his torch. They liked the fire, he sensed. He'd thrust the torch into the mouth of one of the larger skulls and made the shadows leap and dance on the wall behind him. The teeth were long, curving knives of black [diamond](wiki:Diamond). The flame of the torch was nothing to them; they had bathed in the heat of far greater fires. When he had moved away, Tyrion could have sworn that the beast's empty eye sockets had watched him go.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot13.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-14)
It's dead. It's just a skull, it can’t hurt me.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot32.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-6)
This time the monsters did not frighten her. They seemed almost old friends.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Ragot50.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-2)
Finally a great pair of bronze doors appeared to her left, grander than the rest. They swung open as she neared, and she had to stop and look. Beyond loomed [a cavernous stone hall](wiki:Red_Keep), the largest she had ever seen. The skulls of dead dragons looked down from its walls.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Racok48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-2)
Beneath the empty eyes of the skulls, Jaime hauled the [last dragon king](wiki:Aerys_II_Targaryen) bodily off [the steps](wiki:Iron_Throne), squealing like a pig and smelling like a privy. A single slash across his throat was all it took [to end it](wiki:Kingslayer).(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos11.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_19-1)
It would be a wondrous thing to see stone come to life. And to mount a [dragon](wiki:Dragon)... I remember the first time [my father](wiki:Steffon_Baratheon) took me to court, [Robert](wiki:Robert_Baratheon) had to hold my hand. I could not have been older than four, which would have made him five or six. We agreed afterward that the king had been as noble as the dragons were fearsome. Years later, our father told us that [Aerys](wiki:Aerys_II_Targaryen) had cut himself on the [throne](wiki:Iron_Throne) that morning, so his [Hand](wiki:Hand_of_the_King) had taken his place. It was [Tywin Lannister](wiki:Tywin_Lannister) who'd so impressed us. Robert took the skulls down when he donned the crown, but he could not bear to have them destroyed.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos54.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_18-3)
[She](wiki:Shae) stood within the dragon's jaws, nude. [Balerion](wiki:Balerion). Or was it [Vhagar](wiki:Vhagar)? One dragon skull looked much like another.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos58.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-2)
A vague light was leaking through the row of long narrow windows set high in the cellar wall. The skulls of the Targaryen dragons were emerging from the darkness around them, black amidst grey.(wiki:Skulls_of_the_Targaryen_dragons.cite_ref-Rasos58.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-3)
