## Appearances & Description

The Shivers progresses quickly. First the afflicted will get a chill, then shivering that gets progressively worse, until it is so bad that the teeth chatter and the arms and legs convulse uncontrollably. When the end is near, the lips turn blue and the victim begins to cough up blood.(wiki:Shivers.cite_ref-Rfabthe_long_reign_-_jaehaerys_and_alysanne:_policy.2C_progeny.2C_and_pain.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-1)
The course of the Shivers is remarkably swift: death can come within a day of the onset of the first chill. Old and young are most vulnerable, though even men in the prime of life can wake up healthy one morning and be struck dead by the next. In the winter of 59 and 60 AC, no more than one in five of those who caught the Shivers ever recovered.(wiki:Shivers.cite_ref-Rfabthe_long_reign_-_jaehaerys_and_alysanne:_policy.2C_progeny.2C_and_pain.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)
During the reign of [Jaehaerys I Targaryen](wiki:Jaehaerys_I_Targaryen), many suspected that the plague was spread by rats, the small brown kind that sneak aboard sailing ships. It was clear that the disease was not native to Westeros, but spread from some foreign land, as it started in the ports of Westeros. The [maesters](wiki:Maester) of the [Citadel](wiki:Citadel) never conclusively determined if the rats were the cause of the spread of the disease, but [cats](wiki:Cat) became very popular and expensive during the epidemic.(wiki:Shivers.cite_ref-Rfabthe_long_reign_-_jaehaerys_and_alysanne:_policy.2C_progeny.2C_and_pain.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)

## Origins

The Shivers struck [Westeros](wiki:Westeros) in [59 AC](wiki:59_AC), during the first year of an especially cruel winter plagued by widespread famine. The first cases of the Shivers started in the eastern parts of the [Seven Kingdoms](wiki:Seven_Kingdoms), moving across the [Blackwater Bay](wiki:Blackwater_Bay) and up the [Blackwater Rush](wiki:Blackwater_Rush), hitting the islands off the [crownlands](wiki:Crownlands), including [Dragonstone](wiki:Dragonstone) and [Driftmark](wiki:Driftmark). From there, the disease spread across the lands. [Oldtown](wiki:Oldtown) lost a quarter of its population, and [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing) was hit hardest of all. Half of King [Jaehaerys I Targaryen](wiki:Jaehaerys_I_Targaryen)'s [small council](wiki:Small_council) died, along with many of the lords of the Great Houses, a third of the [maesters](wiki:Maester) of the [Citadel](wiki:Citadel), and the [High Septon](wiki:High_Septon). King Jaehaerys's own six-year old daughter, Princess [Daenerys](wiki:Daenerys_Targaryen_(daughter_of_Jaehaerys_I)), fell ill as well, and died a day and a half after first complaining of being cold in [60 AC](wiki:60_AC).(wiki:Shivers.cite_ref-Rfabthe_long_reign_-_jaehaerys_and_alysanne:_policy.2C_progeny.2C_and_pain.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-4)
[Qarl Corbray](wiki:Qarl_Corbray), the Lord Commander of the [City Watch of King's Landing](wiki:City_Watch_of_King's_Landing), and many of his men died, resulting in chaos in the city. Lord [Rego Draz](wiki:Rego_Draz), the [master of coin](wiki:Master_of_coin), was murdered when he happened upon a hungry and partially drunk crowd that blamed him for the high cost of food and all foreigners for the plague.(wiki:Shivers.cite_ref-Rfabthe_long_reign_-_jaehaerys_and_alysanne:_policy.2C_progeny.2C_and_pain.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-5)
