## Origins

According to legend, the [Others](wiki:Others) led hosts of the slain during the [Long Night](wiki:Long_Night), and the [last hero](wiki:Last_hero) was hunted by dead men and [giant ice spiders](wiki:Giant_ice_spiders).(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Ragot24.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_13-0) The people of the [Seven Kingdoms](wiki:Seven_Kingdoms) now consider them only monsters from children's tales, however.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Rtwoiaf721_14-0)

## Narrative Arc

### A Game of Thrones[ ]

After Ser [Waymar Royce](wiki:Waymar_Royce) is killed by [Others](wiki:Others) in the [haunted forest](wiki:Haunted_forest), he rises as a wight and kills [Will](wiki:Will).(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Ragot0.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-1)
The bodies of [Othor](wiki:Othor) and [Jafer Flowers](wiki:Jafer_Flowers) are found [beyond the Wall](wiki:Beyond_the_Wall) and brought south to [Castle Black](wiki:Castle_Black) by the [Night's Watch](wiki:Night's_Watch), but during the night the corpses rise. [Jon Snow](wiki:Jon_Snow) and [Ghost](wiki:Ghost) rescue [Jeor Mormont](wiki:Jeor_Mormont), [Lord Commander of the Night's Watch](wiki:Lord_Commander_of_the_Night's_Watch), from the wight that was Othor; the wight seemed to know where Jeor slept and who he was as it tried to kill him.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Ragot52.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-6) The wight that was Jafer kills five men, including Ser [Jaremy Rykker](wiki:Jaremy_Rykker) with his own dagger.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Ragot60.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_15-0)
At [Winterfell](wiki:Winterfell), [Old Nan](wiki:Old_Nan) tells [Bran Stark](wiki:Bran_Stark) the tale of the [last hero](wiki:Last_hero) in which she mentions that the Others led hosts of the slain and fed their dead servants on the flesh of human children.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Ragot24.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_13-1)

### A Clash of Kings[ ]

To impress on the [Iron Throne](wiki:Iron_Throne) the severity of the threat from [beyond the Wall](wiki:Beyond_the_Wall) so that King [Joffrey I Baratheon](wiki:Joffrey_Baratheon) may send more troops to the [Wall](wiki:Wall), Ser [Alliser Thorne](wiki:Alliser_Thorne) is sent to [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing) with Othor's still-moving hand in a jar. [Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) keeps Alliser waiting so long that Othor's hand decomposes into bones, however, and it is therefore unconvincing.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Racok25.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_16-0)

### A Storm of Swords[ ]

The [great ranging](wiki:Great_ranging) of the Watch is crushed in the [fight at the Fist](wiki:Fight_at_the_Fist) by a horde of wights sent against them;(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Rasos0.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_17-0) [Samwell Tarly](wiki:Samwell_Tarly) spots a dead bear among the wights.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Rasos18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-2) Those who survive are led by Lord Commander Mormont on a grim march back to [Craster's Keep](wiki:Craster's_Keep). Sam notices that there are no attacks by the Others or the wights while they are at Craster's home,(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Rasos33.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-1) but Jeor and his host are slain during the [mutiny at Craster's Keep](wiki:Mutiny_at_Craster's_Keep).(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Rasos33.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-2)
Sam, [Gilly](wiki:Gilly), and [her son](wiki:Monster) travel south for the Wall, but they are beset at [a village](wiki:Whitetree) by wights, some of whom had been men of the Night's Watch. One of those wights was [Small Paul](wiki:Small_Paul), whom Samwell tries to stab with a dagger made from [dragonglass](wiki:Dragonglass). The dagger shatters against Paul's chainmail, but Sam destroys the wight's skull with burning wood. [Coldhands](wiki:Coldhands) and his [ravens](wiki:Raven) rescue the humans from the other wights.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Rasos46.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-5)

### A Dance with Dragons[ ]

[Torwynd](wiki:Torwynd) dies a few days after the [battle beneath the Wall](wiki:Battle_beneath_the_Wall) from the cold. He rises as a wight and his father [Tormund](wiki:Tormund) is forced to slay him.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd53.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_18-0) Although he is in the body of a wolf, the skinchanger [Varamyr](wiki:Varamyr) thinks that the wight of [Thistle](wiki:Thistle) recognizes him.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd0.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_8-1)
While approaching the [cave of the three-eyed crow](wiki:Cave_of_the_three-eyed_crow), Bran and his companions are attacked by frozen wights who had been waiting in the snow.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd13.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_9-1) The wights are set ablaze by [Leaf](wiki:Leaf).(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd13.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_9-2) Later, while Bran trains with the [three-eyed crow](wiki:Three-eyed_crow), [Summer](wiki:Summer) eats the flesh from a still-grasping severed arm. The arm stops moving once the [direwolf](wiki:Direwolf) cracks open the bone to eat its marrow.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd34.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_19-0)
While listening to gossip in the [Lazy Eel](wiki:Lazy_Eel) in [White Harbor](wiki:White_Harbor), Lord [Davos Seaworth](wiki:Davos_Seaworth) observes that no sailors discuss [wildlings](wiki:Wildlings), wights, and [giants](wiki:Giant), unlike the men at [Eastwatch-by-the-Sea](wiki:Eastwatch-by-the-Sea).(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd15.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_20-0)
Now Lord Commander, Jon Snow consigns some wildling corpses from a [weirwood](wiki:Weirwood) grove to the [ice cells](wiki:Ice_cell) of [Castle Black](wiki:Castle_Black), hoping they can be studied when they rise up.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd35.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_21-0) Maester [Aemon](wiki:Aemon_Targaryen_(son_of_Maekar_I)) and Samwell would have understood Jon's actions, but Septon [Cellador](wiki:Cellador) is horrified.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd39.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-0) Jon later goes down to the ice cells where they have four living men and two dead wildling men, whom he had almost forgotten. He had hoped to learn something from the bodies, but the corpses remained dead.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd69.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_23-0) When Jon decides to move the living men he instructs [Bowen Marsh](wiki:Bowen_Marsh) to leave the corpses. Jon thinks he will need to burn them eventually, but for the time being they are bound with iron chains inside the cells to hold them harmless.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd69.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_23-1)
[Cotter Pyke](wiki:Cotter_Pyke) sails towards [Hardhome](wiki:Hardhome) by the command of Lord Commander Snow. By rescuing the wildlings Jon hopes to prevent the Others from raising an enormous army of wights by killing the thousands of wildlings stranded at Hardhome and raising them as their thralls. When Cotter arrives at Hardhome he sends a report to say there are dead things in the woods and dead things in the water.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd58.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_24-0)

## Quotes

The cold winds are rising, and men go out from their fires and never come back ... or if they do, they're not men no more, but only wights, with blue eyes and cold black hands. Why do you think I run south with [Stiv](wiki:Stiv) and [Hali](wiki:Hali) and the rest of them fools?(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Ragot53.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_25-0)
We've seen the dead come back, you and me, and it's not something I care to see again.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Ragot70.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_26-0)
Samwell: Why don’t they come finish us?
Grenn: They only come when it's cold.
[Necromancy](wiki:Necromancy) animates these wights, yet they are still only dead flesh. [Steel](wiki:Steel) and fire will serve for them. The ones you call the [Others](wiki:Others) are something more.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Rasos78.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-1)
You saw the wights come swarming up the [Fist](wiki:Fight_at_the_Fist), a tide of living dead men with black hands and bright blue eyes.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Raffc5.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_27-0)
You'd best pray it's a [wildling](wiki:Wildling) blade that kills me, though. The ones the [Others](wiki:Others) kill don't stay dead ... and they remember.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd28.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_28-0)
Cellador: Wights are monstrous, unnatural creatures. Abominations before the eyes of the gods. You ... you cannot mean to try to talk with them? Jon: Monsters they may be, but they were men before they died. How much remains? The [one I slew](wiki:Othor) was intent on killing Lord Commander [Mormont](wiki:Jeor_Mormont). Plainly he remembered who he was and where to find him ... [My lord father](wiki:Eddard_Stark) used to tell me that a man must know his enemies. We understand little of the wights and less about the [Others](wiki:Others). We need to learn.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd39.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-1)
Are you so blind, or is it that you do not wish to see? What do you think will happen when all these enemies are dead? Let me tell you what will happen. The dead will rise again, in their hundreds and their thousands. They will rise as wights, with black hands and pale blue eyes, and they will come for us.(wiki:Wights.cite_ref-Radwd39.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-2)
