## Origins

Following the death of King [Robert I Baratheon](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon), his heir, Prince [Joffrey](wiki:Joffrey_Baratheon), is crowned.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Ragot57.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_12-0) However, Robert's two brothers also announce their own claims to the [Iron Throne](wiki:Iron_Throne). Robert's youngest brother, [Renly Baratheon](wiki:Renly_Baratheon), is the first to present his claim. Having fled [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing) with Ser [Loras Tyrell](wiki:Loras_Tyrell) shortly before Robert's death, Renly rides to [Highgarden](wiki:Highgarden), marries [Margaery Tyrell](wiki:Margaery_Tyrell), the daughter of [Mace Tyrell](wiki:Mace_Tyrell), the [Lord of Highgarden](wiki:Lord_of_Highgarden), and claims the throne a fortnight later.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Ragot69.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_13-0) Renly's strength comes from both the [Reach](wiki:Reach) and the [stormlands](wiki:Stormlands).(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Ragot71.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_14-0)

Renly's elder brother, [Stannis](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon), who had fled to [his seat](wiki:Dragonstone) on [Dragonstone](wiki:Dragonstone_(island)), later proclaims his own claim for the throne, on account of his belief that Joffrey and his siblings had not been fathered by Robert, but instead by Queen [Cersei's](wiki:Cersei_Lannister) twin brother, Ser [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister).(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racokprologue.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_15-0) Although Stannis has been gathering his strength for half a year, he still lacks the strength to attack King's Landing, as few [Houses are sworn to Dragonstone](wiki:House_Baratheon_of_Dragonstone) and the rocky, volcanic islands surrounding Dragonstone have a sparse population. Additionally, Stannis considers his brother's proclamation as a treasonous act, and is angered that the men of the stormlands have given their support to Renly, the [Lord of Storm's End](wiki:Lord_of_Storm's_End).(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racokprologue.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_15-1)

With his huge host, Renly begins his march from Highgarden on the [roseroad](wiki:Roseroad) towards King's Landing, accompanied by his young bride,(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok10.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_16-0)(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok17.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_17-0) but his host moves slowly.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok22.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_18-0)

Stannis receives counsel from a [red priestess](wiki:Red_priest), [Melisandre](wiki:Melisandre), who tells him of two futures she has seen in her flames: one in which Stannis is defeated at King's Landing by his brother Renly, and one in which he sails to Storm's End, where his brother shall die, and his men will flock to Stannis.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-16) With the strength he has gathered thus far, Stannis sets sail with [his fleet](wiki:Royal_fleet) for the stormlands.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok41.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_19-0)

## Narrative Arc

### Beginning

[Stannis](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) arrives in the [stormlands](wiki:Stormlands) with five thousand men(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-23) and lays siege to the fortress [Storm's End](wiki:Storm's_End), [Renly's](wiki:Renly_Baratheon) seat on [Shipbreaker Bay](wiki:Shipbreaker_Bay).(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok22.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_18-1)(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok25.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_20-0) Stannis's foragers cut down trees to build siege towers and catapults.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-24)

Renly is at [Bitterbridge](wiki:Bitterbridge) with his army when the news reaches his camp.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok22.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_18-2) He splits his forces and rides with some twenty thousand cavalry to Storm's End to break the siege, leaving his foot behind. Lady [Catelyn Stark](wiki:Catelyn_Stark), an envoy of her son [Robb Stark](wiki:Robb_Stark), the new [King in the North](wiki:King_in_the_North), accompanies Renly.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-25)

### Renly and Stannis

Renly confronts Stannis in a parley outside Storm's End, during which he offers Stannis [a peach](wiki:Renly's_peach). The unyielding brothers are unable to set aside their differences; instead, they agree that a battle is set to start at dawn the next day.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-26)

Renly insists that Catelyn remain in his camp so that she can see the fate which awaits rebels.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-27) Renly grants command of the center of his main battle to Lord [Mathis Rowan](wiki:Mathis_Rowan), the left to Lord [Bryce Caron](wiki:Bryce_Caron), the right to himself, the reserve to [Lord Estermont](wiki:Lord_Estermont), and the vanguard to Ser [Loras Tyrell](wiki:Loras_Tyrell), Lord Commander of the [Rainbow Guard](wiki:Rainbow_Guard).(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-28)

Shortly before the battle is to start at dawn, while being armored for battle by [Brienne of Tarth](wiki:Brienne_Tarth), Renly is killed by a [shadow](wiki:Shadow_child).(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok33.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_21-0) Ser [Emmon Cuy](wiki:Emmon_Cuy) and Ser [Robar Royce](wiki:Robar_Royce), who had been guarding the king's tent, accuse Brienne of the murder when they see Renly dead in Brienne's arms. Catelyn, who had witnessed Renly's death, convinces Robar that Brienne is innocent. Escaping Emmon, Catelyn and Brienne flee the camp and head for the [riverlands](wiki:Riverlands).(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok33.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_21-1)

When he arrives at Renly's pavilion, a raging Loras kills Emmon and Robar for having failed to protect their king.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-0) Loras buries Renly in a place they knew from when Loras was squiring with Renly at Storm's End, where no one will find and disturb the would-be king's remains.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Rasos67.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_23-0)

### Resumption

With Renly dead, the majority of the host that had accompanied him to Storm's End swears their allegiance to Stannis.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-1) [House Florent](wiki:House_Florent) and both branches of [House Fossoway](wiki:House_Fossoway) also defect to Stannis, but a fifth of Renly's knights return to Bitterbridge with Loras.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-2) First to join Stannis is Lord [Alester Florent](wiki:Alester_Florent), the uncle of Stannis's queen, [Selyse](wiki:Selyse_Florent).(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-3)

The siege continues as Storm's End's castellan, Ser [Cortnay Penrose](wiki:Cortnay_Penrose), refuses to yield the castle to Stannis without first seeing Renly's missing body.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-4) Stannis has the castle surrounded by land and sea.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok39.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_24-0)(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-17) He is willing to let the garrison go unharmed if they yield the castle and deliver him [Edric Storm](wiki:Edric_Storm), the [bastard](wiki:Bastard) son of King [Robert I Baratheon](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon) and Renly's ward.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok39.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_24-1) Since Edric greatly resembles his late father, Stannis hopes to use the boy's appearance to help prove that Queen [Cersei Lannister](wiki:Cersei_Lannister)'s children were not fathered by Robert.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok10.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_16-1) Fearing for Edric's safety, Cortnay sends [ravens](wiki:Raven) offering to submit to whichever other claimant in the [War of the Five Kings](wiki:War_of_the_Five_Kings) can break Stannis's siege, including to [Riverrun](wiki:Riverrun), but no help arrives.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok39.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_24-2)

During a parley beneath the walls, Cortnay offers single combat with a champion of Stannis's choosing, but is rebuffed by the king.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-18) In order to coerce Cortnay, several ideas are proposed, among them storming the castle, leaving a force to mount a protracted siege, or threatening to kill Cortnay's father, Lord [Penrose](wiki:House_Penrose). Stannis refuses all of these suggestions. Instead, he turns to Ser [Davos Seaworth](wiki:Davos_Seaworth).(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-19)

To end the siege quickly, the Onion Knight smuggles Melisandre under the castle by boat, where he witnesses her giving birth to another shadow,(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-20) which assassinates Cortnay by throwing him from a tower.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Rawoiafcortnay_penrose.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_25-0) Although it is reported that Cortnay threw himself, Lord [Varys](wiki:Varys), the [master of whisperers](wiki:Master_of_whisperers) from Joffrey's [small council](wiki:Small_council), points out to [Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) that Cortnay had not seemed lost to despair.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok44.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_26-0)

Lord [Elwood Meadows](wiki:Elwood_Meadows), Cortnay's young lieutenant,(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-21) names himself castellan after Cortnay's death and surrenders Storm's End to Stannis.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok45.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_27-0)

## Aftermath

Near sixty thousand men from Renly's army remain encamped at [Bitterbridge](wiki:Bitterbridge)(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-22) under lesser lords and officers,(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-28) but when news of Renly's death reaches them,(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-23) [fighting breaks out](wiki:Fighting_at_Bitterbridge) between those who wish to support Stannis and those who follow [House Tyrell](wiki:House_Tyrell)'s decision not to do so. Stannis sends Ser [Parmen Crane](wiki:Parmen_Crane) and Ser [Erren Florent](wiki:Erren_Florent) to retrieve Renly's former army for him,(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-24) but they are taken prisoner.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Rasosappendix.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_9-1) Lord [Randyll Tarly](wiki:Randyll_Tarly) seizes the supplies and puts many men, mostly [Florents](wiki:House_Florent), to death.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok44.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_26-1)

In [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing), the [small council](wiki:Small_council) of King Joffrey I decides to attempt to make an alliance with [House Tyrell](wiki:House_Tyrell) by offering to marry Joffrey to Margaery. Lord [Petyr Baelish](wiki:Petyr_Baelish), representing Joffrey, travels from the capital to Bitterbridge(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-5) and then [Highgarden](wiki:Highgarden)(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Rasos68.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_29-0) and concludes an alliance with the Tyrells. Riders are sent north to warn Joffrey's grandfather, Lord [Tywin Lannister](wiki:Tywin_Lannister), of Stannis's threat to the capital.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Rasos14.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_30-0)

Stannis names Ser [Gilbert Farring](wiki:Gilbert_Farring) as his own castellan of Storm's End,(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Rasos36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-2) with [Elwood Meadows](wiki:Elwood_Meadows) as his second in command.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Rasosappendix.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_9-2) He leaves two hundred men to hold Storm's End,(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Rasos36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-3) and, after burning the [godswood](wiki:Godswood) as an offering to [R'hllor](wiki:R'hllor),(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok49.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_31-0) begins his march north towards King's Landing(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok52.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_32-0) while his fleet sets sail towards the city as well.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok58.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_33-0)

The forces of Houses [Baratheon](wiki:House_Baratheon), [Lannister](wiki:House_Lannister), and [Tyrell](wiki:House_Tyrell) meet in battle during the [Battle of the Blackwater](wiki:Battle_of_the_Blackwater), one of the largest battles of the war.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok58.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_33-1)(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok62.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_34-0)

## Quotes

> **Tyrion**: He's laid siege to [Storm's End](wiki:Storm's_End). [Renly](wiki:Renly_Baratheon) is riding to meet him. **Cersei**: [Stannis](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) and Renly are fighting each other? Gods be good, I'm starting to believe that [Robert](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon) was the clever one.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok25.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_20-1)
>
> —[Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) and [Cersei Lannister](wiki:Cersei_Lannister)

> **Stannis**: Do you think a few bolts of cloth will make you king? **Renly**: [Tyrell](wiki:House_Tyrell) swords will make me king. [Rowan](wiki:House_Rowan) and [Tarly](wiki:House_Tarly) and [Caron](wiki:House_Caron) will make me king, with axe and mace and warhammer. [Tarth](wiki:House_Tarth) arrows and [Penrose](wiki:House_Penrose) lances, [Fossoway](wiki:House_Fossoway), [Cuy](wiki:House_Cuy), [Mullendore](wiki:House_Mullendore), [Estermont](wiki:House_Estermont), [Selmy](wiki:House_Selmy), [Hightower](wiki:House_Hightower), [Oakheart](wiki:House_Oakheart), [Crane](wiki:House_Crane), [Caswell](wiki:House_Caswell), [Blackbar](wiki:House_Blackbar), [Morrigen](wiki:House_Morrigen), [Beesbury](wiki:House_Beesbury), [Shermer](wiki:House_Shermer), [Dunn](wiki:House_Dunn), [Footly](wiki:House_Footly) ... even [House Florent](wiki:House_Florent), [your own wife's](wiki:Selyse_Florent) brothers and uncles, they will make me king. All the chivalry of the south rides with me, and that is the least part of my power. My foot is coming behind, a hundred thousand swords and spears and pikes. And you will destroy me? With what, pray? That paltry rabble I see there huddled under the castle walls?(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-29)
>
> —Renly and [Stannis Baratheon](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon)

> **Renly**: My brother has not changed. Castles and courtesies will not appease him, he must have blood. Well, I am of a mind to grant his wish.
>
> **Mathis**: Your Grace, I see no need for battle here. The castle is strongly garrisoned and well provisioned, Ser [Cortnay Penrose](wiki:Cortnay_Penrose) is a seasoned commander, and the [trebuchet](wiki:Trebuchet) has not been built that could breach the walls of [Storm's End](wiki:Storm's_End). Let Lord [Stannis](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) have his siege. He will find no joy in it, and whilst he sits cold and hungry and profitless, we will take [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing).
>
> —[Renly Baratheon](wiki:Renly_Baratheon) and [Mathis Rowan](wiki:Mathis_Rowan)

> We should thank the gods that Ser [Cortnay Penrose](wiki:Cortnay_Penrose) is as stubborn as he is. [Stannis](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) will never march north with [Storm's End](wiki:Storm's_End) untaken in his rear.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-6)
>
> —[Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) to [Cersei Lannister](wiki:Cersei_Lannister)

> **Stannis**: I have twenty thousand men. You are besieged by land and sea. Why would I choose single combat when my eventual victory is certain? I give you fair warning. If you force me to take [my castle](wiki:Storm's_End) by storm, you may expect no mercy. I will hang you for traitors, every one of you. **Cortnay**: As [the gods](wiki:Faith_of_the_Seven) will it. Bring on your storm, my lord, and recall, if you do, the name of this castle.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-25)
>
> —[Stannis Baratheon](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) and [Cortnay Penrose](wiki:Cortnay_Penrose)

> **Stannis**: [Lord Velaryon](wiki:Monford_Velaryon) will urge me to storm the castle walls at first light, grapnels and scaling ladders against arrows and boiling oil. The young mules will think this a splendid notion. [Estermont](wiki:Lord_Estermont) will favor settling down to starve them out, as [Tyrell](wiki:Mace_Tyrell) and [Redwyne](wiki:Paxter_Redwyne) once tried with me. That might take a year, but old mules are patient. And [Lord Caron](wiki:Bryce_Caron) and the others who like to kick will want to take up Ser [Cortnay's](wiki:Cortnay_Penrose) gauntlet and hazard all upon a single combat. Each one imagining he will be my champion and win undying fame. What would you have me do, smuggler?
>
> **Davos**: Strike for [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing) at once.
>
> —[Stannis Baratheon](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) and [Davos Seaworth](wiki:Davos_Seaworth)

> Panting, she squatted and spread her legs. Blood ran down her thighs, black as ink. Her cry might have been agony or ecstasy or both. And Davos saw the crown of the child's head push its way out of her. Two arms wriggled free, grasping, black fingers coiling around [Melisandre](wiki:Melisandre)'s straining thighs, pushing, until the whole of [the shadow](wiki:Shadow_child) slid out into the world and rose taller than Davos, tall as the tunnel, towering above the boat. He had only an instant to look at it before it was gone, twisting between the bars of the portcullis and racing across the surface of the water, but that instant was long enough. He knew that shadow. As he knew [the man](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) who'd cast it.(wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(299).cite_ref-Racok42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-27)
>
> —thoughts of [Davos Seaworth](wiki:Davos_Seaworth)
