## Origins

After slaying Lord [Quentyn Blackwood](wiki:Quentyn_Blackwood) in [206 AC](wiki:Years_after_Aegon's_Conquest) in a [tourney](wiki:Tourney) at [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing), Otho became known as "the Brute of Bracken". Although he used a blunted longaxe, Otho struck Lord Quentyn so hard that he stove in his helm's visor and the face beneath.(wiki:Otho_Bracken.cite_ref-Rthk.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)

Otho participated in the [tourney at Ashford Meadow](wiki:Tourney_at_Ashford_Meadow) in [209 AC](wiki:209_AC), his brown tent beneath a red stallion erected far away from the tents of [House Blackwood](wiki:House_Blackwood). Ser [Duncan the Tall](wiki:Duncan_the_Tall) watched Otho and Lord [Pearse Caron](wiki:Pearse_Caron) tilting against a quintain the day before the tourney began. While searched for [knights](wiki:Knight) for his [trial of seven](wiki:Trial_of_seven), Ser [Steffon Fossoway](wiki:Steffon_Fossoway) believed he could bring the Brute of Bracken to Duncan's cause, but ended up betraying Duncan in favor of Prince [Aerion Targaryen](wiki:Aerion_Targaryen). Still in need of a seventh knight, Duncan reined up before Otho and pleaded for his assistance; unlike other knights, Otho had the grace to respond, but rejected him on account of not knowing the [hedge knight](wiki:Hedge_knight).(wiki:Otho_Bracken.cite_ref-Rthk.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-4)

Otho's older brother died in the [Great Spring Sickness](wiki:Great_Spring_Sickness), which made Otho his [father's](wiki:Lord_Bracken_(father_of_Otho)) new heir. In [211 AC](wiki:211_AC), Otho's father was slowly dying, and [Septon](wiki:Septon) [Sefton](wiki:Sefton_Staunton) predicted that "*The Blackwoods will never stomach the Brute of Bracken as a neighbor*", insisting it would mean war.(wiki:Otho_Bracken.cite_ref-Rtss.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0) Early the following year, it was rumored at the [wedding tourney](wiki:Wedding_tourney_at_Whitewalls) at [Whitewalls](wiki:Whitewalls) that Otho might come. He did not, however, and it was suggested that the tourney was "*hardly worth the bother*" for Otho.(wiki:Otho_Bracken.cite_ref-Rtmk.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-3) At the tourney, Ser Duncan the Tall overheard a discussion between Lord [Gormon Peake](wiki:Gormon_Peake) and Ser [Tommard Heddle](wiki:Tommard_Heddle), where the belief was expressed that Otho would have to follow the [Blackfyre](wiki:Blackfyre) cause, once the [Freys](wiki:House_Frey) and [Lothstons](wiki:House_Lothston) had joined it.(wiki:Otho_Bracken.cite_ref-Rtmk.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-4)

## Quotes

> **Duncan**: Ser Otho, all know you for a great champion. Join us, I beg you. In the names of the [old gods](wiki:Old_gods) and the [new](wiki:Faith_of_the_Seven). My cause is just. **Otho**: That may be, but it is your cause, not mine. I know you not, boy.(wiki:Otho_Bracken.cite_ref-Rthk.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-5)
>
> —[Duncan the Tall](wiki:Duncan_the_Tall) and Otho
