## Narrative Arc

Hearing north to the [Wall](wiki:Wall), [Bran](wiki:Bran_Stark) and his companions slowly travel through the [northern mountains](wiki:Northern_mountains). Bran tells his friends about the [clans](wiki:Northern_mountain_clans) who live in the mountains and hills.

To avoid freezing rain, the travelers shelter with a [a Liddle](wiki:The_Liddle) in a shallow cave. Sharing his food with them, the man warns that [squids](wiki:Ironborn) are in the [wolfswood](wiki:Wolfswood) and that the [Bastard's boys](wiki:Bastard's_boys) are hunting along the [kingsroad](wiki:Kingsroad). The man indicates that the [Bastard of Bolton](wiki:Ramsay_Snow) is offering gold for wolfskins and for word on the walking dead, and he looks knowingly at Bran and [Summer](wiki:Summer). The Liddle also tells them about the [Old Bear](wiki:Jeor_Mormont) leading the [Night's Watch](wiki:Night's_Watch) into the [haunted forest](wiki:Haunted_forest). The man leaves them sausage and oatcakes and departs before they wake.

Later, [Meera](wiki:Meera_Reed) tells the story of the [Knight of the Laughing Tree](wiki:Knight_of_the_Laughing_Tree) during the [year of the false spring](wiki:Year_of_the_false_spring); the story names no names, but from their references, we know who they are. A crannogman ([Howland Reed](wiki:Howland_Reed)) had left [Greywater Watch](wiki:Greywater_Watch) and visited the [green men](wiki:Green_men) on the [Isle of Faces](wiki:Isle_of_Faces). Returning home, he stopped at [Harrenhal](wiki:Harrenhal) for the [great tourney](wiki:Tourney_at_Harrenhal). Three squires accosted him and mocked him for his short stature, knocking him to the ground until he was rescued by a she-wolf ([Lyanna Stark](wiki:Lyanna_Stark)).

A knight ([Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister)) was named to the [Kingsguard](wiki:Kingsguard), although his father was absent ([Tywin Lannister](wiki:Tywin_Lannister) had recently resigned as [Hand](wiki:Hand_of_the_King)). During the feast, the wild wolf ([Brandon Stark](wiki:Brandon_Stark)) asked a maid with laughing [purple eyes](wiki:Purple_eyes) ([Ashara Dayne](wiki:Ashara_Dayne)) to dance with his shy brother ([Eddard Stark](wiki:Eddard_Stark)). A pup ([Benjen Stark](wiki:Benjen_Stark)) offered the crannogman some armor so that he could take his vengeance on the squires during the tourney, but the little man turned him down. The crannogmen prayed to the [old gods](wiki:Old_gods), and the next day at the tourney, a [mystery knight](wiki:Mystery_knight) called the Knight of the Laughing Tree defeated the knights whose squires had wronged the crannogman. Instead of collecting a ransom from the three defeated knights, the mystery knight asked them to teach their squires honor. The Knight of the Laughing Tree disappeared before he could be unmasked, despite the fury of the king ([Aerys II Targaryen](wiki:Aerys_II_Targaryen)).

The tourney was won by the dragon prince ([Rhaegar Targaryen](wiki:Rhaegar_Targaryen)), but Meera ends the story by saying that what happened next is a sadder tale that deserves its own telling. Bran has never heard this story before, and both Reeds are surprised that Lord Eddard never related it to him.
