## Narrative Arc

[Jaime](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) is looking through the [White Book](wiki:White_Book), the history of the [Kingsguard](wiki:Kingsguard), updated throughout the ages by the Lord Commander. We learn much about [Barristan Selmy](wiki:Barristan_Selmy), who gained the title ‘the Bold’ when he was just ten, riding as a [mystery knight](wiki:Mystery_knight) in a tourney at [Blackhaven](wiki:Blackhaven), where he was unmasked by the [Prince of Dragonflies](wiki:Duncan_Targaryen). Barristan was knighted at sixteen by King [Aegon V](wiki:Aegon_V_Targaryen), and named to the Kingsguard in his 23rd year by [Gerold Hightower](wiki:Gerold_Hightower).

The deeds and legends of Barristan the Bold are not lost on Jaime. He recalls the awesome fight between the [Sword of the Morning](wiki:Arthur_Dayne) and the [Smiling Knight](wiki:Smiling_Knight) of the [Kingswood Brotherhood](wiki:Kingswood_Brotherhood), and thinks of his own childhood wishes: That boy had wanted to be Arthur Dayne, but someplace along the way he had become the Smiling Knight instead.

Jaime then receives the five Kingsguard currently under his command, and tests each of them. He mocks [Boros Blount](wiki:Boros_Blount) for his cowardice and inability to protect Prince [Tommen](wiki:Tommen_Baratheon), and tells him that from here on in, Blount will taste all the King’s food. Blount storms from the room, and Jaime goes after [Osmund Kettleblack](wiki:Osmund_Kettleblack). Disgusted that an upjumped [sellsword](wiki:Sellsword) with no reputation has been named to the Kingsguard, Jaime at least concedes that the man probably knows how to fight.

Having heard the details of the Kingsguard's willingness to beat [Sansa Stark](wiki:Sansa_Stark) on Joffrey's orders, Jaime commands [Meryn Trant](wiki:Meryn_Trant) to temper his obedience to the king while the king remains a boy, and to obey the [Queen Regent](wiki:Cersei_Lannister), the [Hand](wiki:Tywin_Lannister), and the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard instead. He gets [Balon Swann](wiki:Balon_Swann) to swear he will remain true to the Crown, even though his [father](wiki:Gulian_Swann) and [brother](wiki:Donnel_Swann)’s allegiance are in question.

Lastly, he questions [Loras Tyrell](wiki:Loras_Tyrell), and finds the Knight of Flowers as cocky as he himself was in his youth. Jaime asks Loras about the supposed ghost of [Renly Baratheon](wiki:Renly_Baratheon) that fought at the [Battle of the Blackwater](wiki:Battle_of_the_Blackwater) at the van of his father's forces, obtaining an admission that it was [Garlan Tyrell](wiki:Garlan_Tyrell) inside the armor. Then he confronts Loras about [Brienne](wiki:Brienne_of_Tarth), and commands him to judge the woman fairly, on his honour as a knight.

Considering Jaime’s words about [Renly](wiki:Renly_Baratheon)’s death, Ser Loras nearly breaks down, stating, "*When I saw him all bloody, with her fled ... if she’s innocent, then [Robar](wiki:Robar_Royce) and [Emmon](wiki:Emmon_Cuy)…*" Jaime absolves him of killing the two [Rainbow Guard](wiki:Rainbow_Guard) in a rage, and then sits alone in the room, contemplating the other debts he still has to pay.
