## Narrative Arc

[Tyrion](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) puzzles out how [his nephew](wiki:Joffrey_Baratheon) must have found [Littlefinger](wiki:Petyr_Baelish)’s Valyrian dagger amongst [Robert](wiki:Robert_Baratheon)’s possessions, assuming that the king had probably forgotten he even owned it. Joffrey must then have paid some unsavory freerider to open [Bran](wiki:Bran_Stark)’s throat, though Tyrion still cannot figure out why, attributing it to Joffrey's innate cruelty for the moment. Tyrion is slightly drunk while Joffrey and [Margaery](wiki:Margaery_Tyrell) are wed in the [Great Sept of Baelor](wiki:Great_Sept_of_Baelor), and continues to drink until night falls and it is time for the great wedding feast. As they enter the ballroom, [Olenna](wiki:Olenna_Redwyne), the Queen of Thorns, comes over to tell Sansa how beautiful she looks, and the old lady straightens out the hairnet that [Dontos](wiki:Dontos_Hollard) gave her. Many at the wedding offer their condolences to Sansa on the loss of [her mother](wiki:Catelyn_Tully) and [brother](wiki:Robb_Stark); watching his wife's courteous and friendly nature to the other guests, Tyrion muses she would have made Joffrey a great queen and wife if he'd had the sense to love her, something Tyrion believes his nephew incapable of.

During the feast, Joffrey calls for the royal jousters, and the party is entertained as two dwarfs battle each other. Joffrey then mocks his uncle, commanding Tyrion to fight the dwarfs as the king’s champion. Tyrion rebuffs him, but the King dumps a huge goblet of wine over Tyrion’s head. Joffrey commands Tyrion to serve him wine, and the hall erupts in laughter. Tyrion refills the goblet, and then the pigeon pie is brought out, and Joffrey calls for Ser [Ilyn’s](wiki:Ilyn_Payne) sword. Sansa is horrified to learn that the King’s Justice no longer holds her father’s greatsword, [Ice](wiki:Ice).

Joffrey calls for more wine, Margaery at his side, and then begins to eat some of Tyrion’s pie. He commands Tyrion to serve him more wine, which Tyrion does. The King then begins to cough, unable to breathe as he claws at his throat. Lady Olenna and Margaery call out for help, but the [Kingsguard](wiki:Kingsguard) are powerless to do anything. As Grand Maester [Pycelle](wiki:Pycelle) calls for his potions, Tyrion dumps the rest of the wine out on the floor, and Joffrey, now turning black, seems to either reach for--or point at--his uncle. [Sansa](wiki:Sansa_Stark) has slipped off during the confusion, but when [Cersei](wiki:Cersei_Lannister) finally lets go of her son’s lifeless body, she commands the Kingsguard to arrest Tyrion for murdering the King.
