## Narrative Arc

Ser [Jaime](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) is being escorted to [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing) by [Brienne](wiki:Brienne_Tarth) and his cousin, Ser [Cleos Frey](wiki:Cleos_Frey), by boat. He was released in secrecy from [Riverrun](wiki:Riverrun) by [Catelyn](wiki:Catelyn_Stark) after swearing never again to take up arms against the [Starks](wiki:House_Stark) or [Tullys](wiki:House_Tully), and to honor his brother [Tyrion's](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) pledge to release [Sansa](wiki:Sansa_Stark) and [Arya](wiki:Arya_Stark). The oath was sworn at sword point and while drunk, and Jaime considers killing Brienne and getting away. He is still chained hand and foot.

Jaime ponders [Cersei's](wiki:Cersei_Lannister) feelings with him after the [Bran](wiki:Bran_Stark) incident and wonders if she sent [the assassin](wiki:Catspaw) to Bran's room, but dismisses that notion thinking that she would have sent Jaime himself to do the dirty work. Jaime has Cleos shave his head so he will be less recognizable should they get caught. He and Brienne treat each other with contempt.

As their boat moves down the [Red Fork](wiki:Red_Fork) of the [Trident](wiki:Trident), they see abandoned shacks and a burned towerhouse. While they are in lands of [House Bracken](wiki:House_Bracken), they see a burned inn and the corpses of several tavern wenches hanging from a nearby oak. Brienne stops their boat to cut down the bodies and bury them. Jaime reads a sign which states *They Lay with Lions*, and Jaime mocks Brienne because they were killed by [northmen](wiki:Northmen) or [rivermen](wiki:Rivermen) for servicing [Lannister](wiki:House_Lannister) men. Jaime wonders if the deaths were ordered by Lord [Jonos Bracken](wiki:Jonos_Bracken), and Cleos suggests [Marq Piper](wiki:Marq_Piper), [Beric Dondarrion](wiki:Beric_Dondarrion), and [Roose Bolton](wiki:Roose_Bolton) as alternatives. Since Lord Bolton [took Harrenhal](wiki:Fall_of_Harrenhal), Jaime worries that the Trident and the [kingsroad](wiki:Kingsroad) are being watched.

Before they can start to dig graves for the women, Brienne spots a river galley bearing down on them. The galley is under the command of Ser [Robin Ryger](wiki:Robin_Ryger), sent by Ser [Edmure Tully](wiki:Edmure_Tully) to return the Kingslayer to Riverrun. Brienne jumps out of the skiff and climbs a cliff face. Jaime distracts the men on the galley by challenging Robin to single combat, allowing Brienne to dislodge a large boulder which crashes down on the galley, sinking it. When Brienne swims back to the skiff, Jaime considers smashing her in the face with his oar, but instead pulls her into the boat. Jaime derides Brienne and asks her if she wants his thanks, but she rebuffs the Kingslayer and says she is only motivated by the oath she swore to Catelyn to return him to King's Landing. Jaime marvels at Brienne's sense of duty.
