## Narrative Arc

[Daenerys](wiki:Daenerys_Targaryen) and her army of [Unsullied](wiki:Unsullied) reach [Yunkai](wiki:Yunkai), to find the city guarded by a huge force including two [sellsword](wiki:Sellsword) companies. She knows that open battle will cost her many lives, even though her commanders feel she will win easily. Daenerys tells her men to invite the two sellsword Captains, as well as the Yunkish leader. The first to arrive are the three Captains of the [Stormcrows](wiki:Stormcrows), who spurn her offer to join her, although she notices [Daario Naharis](wiki:Daario_Naharis) smile at her as they leave. The Captain of the [Second Sons](wiki:Second_Sons) also laughs at her offer, but does accept a wagonload of wine to bring to his men. The master slaver brings Daenerys chests full of gold hoping she will leave Yunkai alone, but she sends him off with his gold and a warning that she will attack in three days time.

After he leaves, Daenerys tells her commanders that they will attack that night, since none of Yunkai’s defenders will be expecting it. Soon after, Daario returns with the heads of the other two Stormcrow Captains, and swears the service of his company. [Jorah](wiki:Jorah_Mormont) warns her not to trust the [Tyroshi](wiki:Tyrosh), yet she commands the battle to commence as planned. During the fight, she asks [Arstan](wiki:Barristan_Selmy) to tell her more of her brother [Rhaegar](wiki:Rhaegar_Targaryen). Whitebeard explains that the Prince was always melancholy, and a sense of doom hung over him. "He was born in grief, and that shadow hung over him all his days." Daenerys knows that it was the shadow of [Summerhall](wiki:Summerhall) that Arstan was referring to. Word arrives that her army won the battle easily during the night, with the help of the Stormcrows, and all the Second Sons too drunk to fight. Daenerys commands her men to spare any who threw down their swords, and promised to free any slaves. Once again, Daenerys’ army swells to even greater size. Daenerys rides on her white mare past all the newly freed people who call out to her as "Mother!"
