## Origins

During the [Dance of the Dragons](wiki:Dance_of_the_Dragons), George was a member of the [Caltrops](wiki:Caltrops), thirteen nobles who plotted to kill the upstart [Two Betrayers](wiki:Two_Betrayers).(wiki:George_Graceford.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_war_and_peace_and_cattle_shows.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-1)

When Lord [Unwin Peake](wiki:Unwin_Peake) came to power as [Hand of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King), Lord Graceford and Ser [Victor Risley](wiki:Victor_Risley) were the only other members of the Caltrops still living. As a supporter of Lord Peake, George was installed as [Lord Confessor](wiki:Lord_Confessor).(wiki:George_Graceford.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_war_and_peace_and_cattle_shows.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2) According to [Mushroom](wiki:Mushroom), Lord Graceford and [Clarice Osgrey](wiki:Clarice_Osgrey) were lovers. He claims she was aroused by [torture](wiki:Torture), and sometimes joined the Lord Confessor in the dungeons to assist him with his work.(wiki:George_Graceford.cite_ref-Rfabthe_lysene_spring_and_the_end_of_regency.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-2)

After an attempted poisoning of Queen [Daenaera Velaryon](wiki:Daenaera_Velaryon), a dozen cooks, bakers, scullions, and serving girls were delivered to the custody of the Lord Confessor. Seven confessed to having plotted to [poison](wiki:Poison) the boy king [Aegon III Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_III_Targaryen), but each account differed as to the poisoned dish and the source of the poison, and thus Lord [Thaddeus Rowan](wiki:Thaddeus_Rowan) dismissed these confessions.(wiki:George_Graceford.cite_ref-Rfabthe_lysene_spring_and_the_end_of_regency.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-3)

Amid the [Lysene Spring](wiki:Lysene_Spring) in [135 AC](wiki:135_AC), Lord Rowan was tortured by George for plotting to kill the king. When a bruised Thaddeus was brought before the court, he did not answer unless Lord Graceford pricked him with a dagger. However, King Aegon III questioned Lord Rowan, making him confess that Aegon himself was part of the plot, and that Lord Rowan had killed King [Viserys I Targaryen](wiki:Viserys_I_Targaryen). George was greatly displeased that Rowan's confession was proven unreliable by the king. The king then ordered the Lord Confessor to be seized, as he had committed treason by forcing a false confession from the Hand.(wiki:George_Graceford.cite_ref-Rfabthe_lysene_spring_and_the_end_of_regency.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-4)

At the mere sight of instruments of torture, Lord Graceford revealed the conspirators, including many other supporters of Lord Peake. [Tessario the Tiger](wiki:Tessario_the_Tiger) implicated Lord Graceford under his own torture. George's trial was one of three of the conspirators that the king attended. George choose to [take the black](wiki:Night's_Watch), rather than be executed. [Maester](wiki:Maester) [Rowley](wiki:Rowley) replaced him as Lord Confessor in [136 AC](wiki:136_AC).(wiki:George_Graceford.cite_ref-Rfabthe_lysene_spring_and_the_end_of_regency.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-5)

## Appearances & Description

According to [Mushroom](wiki:Mushroom), George was cruel but not clever.(wiki:George_Graceford.cite_ref-Rfabthe_lysene_spring_and_the_end_of_regency.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-1)
