## Origins

### Early reign

When he was a boy, King Argilac turned back a [Dornish](wiki:Dorne) invasion.(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_reign_of_the_dragons:_the_conquest.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-1) Towards the end of the [Century of Blood](wiki:Century_of_Blood), he joined the great alliance against the tigers from [Volantis](wiki:Volantis) and led a host into the [Disputed Lands](wiki:Disputed_Lands), marching against an army from Volantis which was attempting to retake [Myr](wiki:Myr).(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_reign_of_the_dragons:_the_conquest.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Radwd8.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0)(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rtwoiafancient_history:_the_doom_of_valyria.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0) Twenty years later, he killed King [Garse VII Gardener](wiki:Garse_VII_Gardener) of the [Reach](wiki:Reach), in the [Battle of Summerfield](wiki:Battle_of_Summerfield).(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_reign_of_the_dragons:_the_conquest.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)

### The Conquest

[Harren the Black](wiki:Harren_Hoare), the [King of the Isles and the Rivers](wiki:King_of_the_Isles_and_the_Rivers), was nearing completion of his massive castle, [Harrenhal](wiki:Harrenhal), and was said to be looking for more conquests. Argilac had grown afraid of Harren and so proposed an alliance with [Aegon](wiki:Aegon_I_Targaryen). It is believed he wanted to create a buffer zone between his kingdom and Harren's. He offered the hand of his [maiden](wiki:Maiden) daughter, [Argella](wiki:Argella_Durrandon), in [marriage](wiki:Marriage) as well as [dowry](wiki:Dowry) lands, though, much of the lands were in fact in the possession of Harren the Black. Aegon refused, offering instead the hand of his best friend and rumored [bastard](wiki:Bastard) brother, [Orys Baratheon](wiki:Orys_Baratheon), as Argella's husband, and asking a part of Argilac's lands as an additional dowry.(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_reign_of_the_dragons:_the_conquest.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-4) Failing to grasp the bond between the two men, Argilac mistook the offer as a grave insult(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rtrotd23.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-0) and had the hands of the envoy cut off. He sent them to Aegon with a message of "These are the only hands you will receive". Aegon called his banners and took counsel with them and his sisters. Then Aegon sent [ravens](wiki:Raven) to the rulers of the Seven Kingdoms. He informed them that there would only be one king in [Westeros](wiki:Westeros). Those who bent the knee would keep their lands and titles, but those that did not he would destroy. King Argilac refused to submit.(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_reign_of_the_dragons:_the_conquest.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-5)

After landing and proclaiming himself Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, Aegon named Orys Baratheon the [Hand of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King) and sent him with [Rhaenys](wiki:Rhaenys_Targaryen) to take [Storm's End](wiki:Storm's_End). Though Orys met with some setbacks, he continued to march on Storm's End. King Argilac refused to be trapped inside his castle like King Harren, so he came out to meet the invaders. He attacked Orys's forces while a huge storm raged, in what became known as the [Last Storm](wiki:Last_Storm). Argilac outnumbered Orys's army two-to-one and outflanked it, but Rhaenys and her [dragon](wiki:Dragon), [Meraxes](wiki:Meraxes), stopped them. Orys came face-to-face with Argilac and slew him in single combat.(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_reign_of_the_dragons:_the_conquest.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-6)

In order to reward Orys, Aegon gave him Argilac's lands and the hand of the dead king's daughter. Orys kept the banner, honors and words of [House Durrandon](wiki:House_Durrandon).(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_reign_of_the_dragons:_the_conquest.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-7)(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Ragotappendix.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-0)

## Appearances & Description

Argilac was a warrior king. He had a mane of black hair.(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rfabaegon.27s_conquest.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-0) By the time of [Aegon's Conquest](wiki:Aegon's_Conquest), Argilac was an older man past his prime whose hair had turned grey.(wiki:Argilac_Durrandon.cite_ref-Rfabaegon.27s_conquest.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-1)
