## Origins

After her brother, Ser [Titus Peake](wiki:Titus_Peake_(son_of_Unwin)) died in the [Dance of the Dragons](wiki:Dance_of_the_Dragons), Myrielle became Lord [Unwin Peake](wiki:Unwin_Peake)'s last surviving child.(wiki:Myrielle_Peake.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_war_and_peace_and_cattle_shows.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-4)

As [Hand of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King), Unwin attempted to promote Myrielle as a bride for King [Aegon III Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_III_Targaryen) after the death of Queen [Jaehaera Targaryen](wiki:Jaehaera_Targaryen) in [133 AC](wiki:133_AC). He claimed that Myrielle's personality, her age, and her mother's fertility made her the perfect candidate in [marriage](wiki:Marriage) to Aegon. When Aegon expressed doubt about liking Myrielle, Lord Peake likened a potential marriage to the king having to eat turnips when his cooks prepared them. When word got out, Myrielle was soon known throughout the [Seven Kingdoms](wiki:Seven_Kingdoms) as Lady Turnips.(wiki:Myrielle_Peake.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_war_and_peace_and_cattle_shows.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-5)

Many [lords](wiki:Lord) disapproved of Peake trying to forward the match so soon after the suspicious death of Queen Jaehaera. Lord [Cregan Stark](wiki:Cregan_Stark) suggested the [north](wiki:North) would look on the match with disfavor, Lord [Kermit Tully](wiki:Kermit_Tully) called it presumptuous, and [Grand Maester](wiki:Grand_Maester) [Munkun](wiki:Munkun)'s support began to waver, acknowledging that the match would be seen as advancing [House Peake](wiki:House_Peake)'s interests rather than being for the good of the realm. Due to pressure from the lords and ladies of the realm, Uwin instead announced the [Maiden's Day Ball](wiki:Maiden's_Day_Ball).(wiki:Myrielle_Peake.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_war_and_peace_and_cattle_shows.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-6)

Myrielle arrived a fortnight before the ball, and Unwin made sure that his daughter spent as much time as possible with the king. Half a dozen dinners together were held, and it seemed like the king was fonder of Myrielle than he ever was of Jaehaera. Three days before the ball, he gave her one of Jaehaera's dolls. Myrielle took this as a token of affection when she was presented at the Maiden's Day ball, cradling the doll in her arms like a babe. The king greeted her by name, and told her he was pleased she liked the doll.(wiki:Myrielle_Peake.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_war_and_peace_and_cattle_shows.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-7)

Aegon III did not marry Myrielle, however, instead wedding Lady [Daenaera Velaryon](wiki:Daenaera_Velaryon). Lord Peake took the rejection of his daughter as a personal affront.(wiki:Myrielle_Peake.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_war_and_peace_and_cattle_shows.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-8) This was partly the reason for his resignation as Hand.(wiki:Myrielle_Peake.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_the_voyage_of_alyn_oakenfist.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0)

As Lord Unwin's only surviving child, it is possible that Myrielle inherited [Starpike](wiki:Starpike), [Dunstonbury](wiki:Dunstonbury) and [Whitegrove](wiki:Whitegrove) at some point.

## Appearances & Description

[Unwin Peake](wiki:Unwin_Peake) described his daughter as lovely and courteous. She was brown of hair and eye, with a broad, freckled face, and crooked teeth that made her shy with smiles. [Mushroom](wiki:Mushroom) writes that Myrielle was "no great beauty", but "fresh and pretty and pleasant".(wiki:Myrielle_Peake.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_war_and_peace_and_cattle_shows.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)

Myrielle was one year older than King [Aegon III Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_III_Targaryen).(wiki:Myrielle_Peake.cite_ref-Rfabunder_the_regents_-_war_and_peace_and_cattle_shows.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)
