---
name: "Crow cage"
type: concept.custom
slug: crow-cage
aliases: []
confidence: tier-2
wiki_source: "https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Crow_cage"
bucket_id: tier3-pathb-longtail
prompt_version: v1-python
node_version: 1
pass_origin: pass2-wiki-deterministic
---

## Identity

## Edges


## Origins

When Lord [Lothar Bracken](wiki:Lothar_Bracken) rebelled against [Harwyn Hoare](wiki:Harwyn_Hoare), [King of the Isles and the Rivers](wiki:King_of_the_Isles_and_the_Rivers), Harwyn crushed the rebellion, sacking and destroying [Stone Hedge](wiki:Stone_Hedge), and imprisoning Lothar in a crow cage. Lothar remained in the cage for most of a year, until he died of starvation.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_riverlands.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-0)
In [161 AC](wiki:161_AC), King [Daeron I Targaryen](wiki:Daeron_I_Targaryen) was killed in [Dorne](wiki:Dorne) when he was attacked under a peace banner. Three knights of the [Kingsguard](wiki:Kingsguard) were slain while defending him, one yielded, and Prince [Aemon the Dragonknight](wiki:Aemon_Targaryen_(son_of_Viserys_II)) was captured, though Aemon managed to slay two of the betrayers before being taken into custody.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_daeron_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-0) [Lord Wyl](wiki:Lord_Wyl_(conquest_of_Dorne)) of [Wyl](wiki:Wyl_(castle)) imprisoned Aemon in a crow cage, naked.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_baelor_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-1) King [Baelor I Targaryen](wiki:Baelor_I_Targaryen) tried to obtain Aemon's release during his journey to [Sunspear](wiki:Sunspear), but Lord Wyl refused. After negotiating peace with the [Prince of Dorne](wiki:Prince_of_Dorne_(father_of_Maron)), Baelor returned to Wyl, and found that Aemon's cage was now suspended over a pit of [vipers](wiki:Snake). [House Wyl](wiki:House_Wyl) was told to release Aemon into Baelor's custody, but instead of having his men open the cage, Lord Wyl gave the key to Baelor, who entered the pit. Singers say the snakes bowed their heads and refused to bite Baelor due to his protection from [the gods](wiki:Faith_of_the_Seven), but according to [maesters](wiki:Maesters), Baelor was bitten six times before reaching Aemon's cage,(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_baelor_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-2) while [Dornishmen](wiki:Dornishmen) claim the king was bitten half a hundred times before using the key.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos59.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-0) The freed Aemon pulled Baelor out of the pit, then climbed out of the cage, carrying Baelor upon his back, while the Wyls wagered on how long they would last. Aemon then climbed to the top of the cage and leapt to safety.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_baelor_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-3)
According to [Septon](wiki:Septon) [Sefton](wiki:Sefton_Staunton), those who said Lady [Rohanne Webber](wiki:Rohanne_Webber) was barren, within in her hearing, were punished by being imprisoned in a crow cage.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rtss.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-6)
In [211 AC](wiki:211_AC), during a [summer](wiki:Summer_(season)) drought, Ser [Duncan the Tall](wiki:Duncan_the_Tall) and his squire, Prince [Aegon "Egg" Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_V_Targaryen), were returning to [Standfast](wiki:Standfast) from [Dosk](wiki:Dosk) when they encountered a crow cage at the crossroads. The two dead men inside had been forced into a cage barely large enough to hold one, and stood embraced. One man had tried to [eat the other](wiki:Cannibalism), gnawing at his neck and shoulder. The other's tongue was missing, though it was not certain if it had been eaten by crows, or if the judging [lord](wiki:Lord) had [torn it out](wiki:Tongue_mutilation) beforehand. While Egg wondered if the men had been [outlaws](wiki:Outlaw), the corpses looked half-starved, and Dunk suspected they had been imprisoned in the cage for stealing food or poaching. After leaving [Coldmoat](wiki:Coldmoat) on their way north, Dunk and Egg saw the crow cage again, and the corpses had been reduced to bones.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rtss.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-7)
In [283 AC](wiki:283_AC), during [Robert's Rebellion](wiki:Robert's_Rebellion), Lord [Robert Baratheon](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon) was wounded in the [Battle of Ashford](wiki:Battle_of_Ashford), and sheltered in [Stoney Sept](wiki:Stoney_Sept), hiding from a royal army led by Lord [Jon Connington](wiki:Jon_Connington), [Hand of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King) to [Aerys II Targaryen](wiki:Aerys_II_Targaryen).(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos29.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-4)(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Radwd61.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-1) Connington's men searched from house to house, he offered pardons and rewards, and he put hostages in crow cages, saying they would have no food or drink until Robert was delivered to him.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Radwd61.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-2) No method achieved any results, and when Robert's allies, Lords [Eddard Stark](wiki:Eddard_Stark) and [Hoster Tully](wiki:Hoster_Tully), arrived at Stoney Sept, Robert defeated Jon in the [Battle of the Bells](wiki:Battle_of_the_Bells), forcing the Hand to retreat.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos29.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-5)(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Radwd61.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-3)

## Narrative Arc

### A Storm of Swords[ ]

[Arya Stark](wiki:Arya_Stark) and the [brotherhood without banners](wiki:Brotherhood_without_banners) arrive in [Stoney Sept](wiki:Stoney_Sept), and see a dozen crow cages in the town's market square, containing four dead men and three dying ones. When [Tom of Sevenstreams](wiki:Tom_of_Sevenstreams) asks if this was done on the orders of Ser [Wilbert](wiki:Wilbert), a resident of the town replies that the knight was killed by forces of [House Lannister](wiki:House_Lannister) the year before, and his sons are away in the [westerlands](wiki:Westerlands) with [Robb Stark](wiki:Robb_Stark). The [Mad Huntsman](wiki:Mad_Huntsman) has been serving justice in their absence. These prisoners are [northmen](wiki:Northmen) who had been searching for [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) after his escape from [Riverrun](wiki:Riverrun), and had raped and murdered at [Tumbler's Falls](wiki:Tumbler's_Falls) when they could not find him. One of the men has a beard covered with blood and flies, another is an old man, and the last is a man so fat that the bars of the cage dig into his skin; the dead men include one [gelded](wiki:Eunuch) for rape.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos29.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-6)
Arya is unnerved to learn that her [father](wiki:Eddard_Stark)'s and brother's men did these crimes, and when she hears the dying men begging for water, goes to help them. She fills her cup at the town fountain, but the crow cage bars are too narrow to pass it through. [Harwin](wiki:Harwin) gives her a leg up onto [Gendry](wiki:Gendry)'s shoulders, and from there Arya can pour water through the top of the cages onto the men. The townsfolk make threats, saying the Mad Huntsman will not like this, but Harwin and [Lem Lemoncloak](wiki:Lem_Lemoncloak) defend Arya, saying Lord [Beric Dondarrion](wiki:Beric_Dondarrion) does not approve of the practice of crow cages. The archer [Anguy](wiki:Anguy) then puts the dying men out of their misery, shooting them with arrows.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos29.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-7)
Arya and the brotherhood stay overnight at the [Peach](wiki:Peach), and the next day the Mad Huntsman returns to Stoney Sept with a captured [Sandor Clegane](wiki:Sandor_Clegane). The Mad Huntsman intends to force Sandor into the fat man's former cage, but Lem and [Greenbeard](wiki:Greenbeard) claim him for Lord Beric's judgement, and the company goes on to the [hollow hill](wiki:Hollow_hill).(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos29.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-8)(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos34.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_8-0)

## Quotes

Egg: Who do you think they were, ser?
Dunk: Robbers. Rapers. Murderers. Egg: It must have been something bad, for them to be left to die inside a crow cage.
Lem: Lord [Beric](wiki:Beric_Dondarrion) don't hold with caging men to die of thirst. Why don't you hang them decent? Man: There was nothing decent 'bout them things they did at [Tumbler's Falls](wiki:Tumbler's_Falls).(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos29.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-9)
Here's your new castle, you bloody [Lannister](wiki:House_Lannister) bastard. A little snug for the likes o' you, but we'll squeeze you in, never fret.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos29.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-10)
You'll rot in them cages. The [crows](wiki:Crow) will be picking out your eyes while we're spending all that good [Lannister](wiki:House_Lannister) [gold](wiki:Gold) o' yours! And when them crows are done, we'll send what's left o' you to [your bloody brother](wiki:Gregor_Clegane). Though I doubt he'll know you.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos29.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-11)
Sandor: Did you leave all your courage in your kennels? Huntsman: No, but I should have left you in a crow cage. I might still.(wiki:Crow_cage.cite_ref-Rasos34.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_8-1)
