## Narrative Arc

[Jeyne Poole](wiki:Jeyne_Poole), posing as [Arya Stark](wiki:Arya_Stark), prepares for her marriage to [Ramsay Bolton](wiki:Ramsay_Snow), out of fear more than anything. [Theon](wiki:Theon_Greyjoy) reminds her that she should think of herself as Arya at all times in order to avoid the dangers of enraging Ramsay. Her plight moves Theon considerably.

Theon has been chosen to ceremoniously present "Arya" in marriage to Ramsay, since he was the longtime [ward](wiki:Ward) of [Eddard Stark](wiki:Eddard_Stark) and it is widely believed that Arya's trueborn brothers are dead. [Jon Snow](wiki:Jon_Snow) is a bastard half-brother and while Theon believes [Bran](wiki:Bran_Stark) and [Rickon Stark](wiki:Rickon_Stark) to be alive, he does not dare to reveal that.

Meanwhile, [Winterfell](wiki:Winterfell) is suffering from both a hard white frost and the looming menace of the coming of [Stannis Baratheon](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon)'s troops. Even so, Ramsay marries "Arya" in the [castle's godswood](wiki:Godswood_of_Winterfell). A bard by the name of [Abel](wiki:Abel) arrives uninvited, with six women followers, to perform for the wedding.(wiki:A_Dance_with_Dragons-Chapter_37.cite_ref-1) Theon believes that he hears his name ("Theon") whispered in the godswood, after months of thinking of himself only as Reek. That and the memories of a different life in a far livelier Winterfell shake him deeply.

After the wedding, there is a feast in the [Great Hall](wiki:Great_Hall_of_Winterfell) with many northern guests, including Lord [Wyman Manderly](wiki:Wyman_Manderly), who is [particularly pleased with the meal](wiki:Frey_Pies/Theories). Lady [Barbrey Dustin](wiki:Barbrey_Dustin) engages in a frank conversation with Theon about her mistrust of Lord Manderly, the Boltons, and of the [maesters](wiki:Maester) of the [Citadel](wiki:Citadel).

Ramsay calls for Theon and cruelly humiliates both him and Jeyne in his quarters in the [Great Keep](wiki:Great_Keep_(Winterfell)). Ramsay has Theon remove Jeyne's clothing with a knife, and then orders him to prepare the frightened girl for [bedding](wiki:Bedding). When Theon says he is incapable of doing so, Ramsay tells him to use his mouth.
