## Narrative Arc

[Coldhands](wiki:Coldhands) has brought [Bran](wiki:Bran_Stark), [Hodor](wiki:Hodor), [Jojen](wiki:Jojen_Reed), [Meera](wiki:Meera_Reed) and [Summer](wiki:Summer) to a steep snow-covered hill. When his elk died, Coldhands butchered it for food, but all the steaks are gone now and they are all weak from hunger and cold, particularly Jojen.

They have to make their way up the hill into a cleft - about a thousand yards through thick wood. But the [Others](wiki:Others) are close by - Coldhand and his ravens can sense them, and an unnatural cold has descended, even as they remain unseen. The ravens urge Bran on so they start up the hill. Meera has to support Jojen's weight.

Around eighty yards from the [cave](wiki:Cave_of_the_three-eyed_crow) entrance, Summer stops at a steep stretch of unbroken snow. Bran, on Hodor's back, knows something is wrong. Coldhands continues to climb so Hodor follows him. He glimpses a fire in the cave entrance when suddenly Hodor trips and falls. A [wight](wiki:Wight) bursts from the snow, grasping his leg. Bran falls from his basket as Hodor and the wight struggle, and soon he is surrounded by dead men emerging from under the snow with pale flesh and black hands. Wights attack Coldhands as well, and Bran is grabbed as he tries to warn Jojen and Meera further down the slope. Summer tears off the arm and throat of the wight assaulting Bran and he begins to crawl the 50 yards to the cave.

Bran enters the mind of Hodor to help him fight off the wights. Meera reaches him as he waves her up the hill and grabs Jojen. Someone sets the wights on fire. Bran awakens in the cave before a [child of the forest](wiki:Children_of_the_forest). She takes them down into the cave, but Coldhands cannot follow them due to the ward on the cave against dead things. They go deeper, underneath roots and across a floor of bones, till they reach a skeletal body sitting on a throne made of roots - the [three-eyed crow](wiki:Three-eyed_crow), the last [greenseer](wiki:Greenseer).
