## Narrative Arc

In [Jon](wiki:Jon_Snow)'s dream he sees through the eyes of his direwolf, [Ghost](wiki:Ghost), who is hunting in the woods somewhere south of the Wall. In the dream Ghost is aware of the presence of the other stark direwolves [Nymeria](wiki:Nymeria), [Shaggydog](wiki:Shaggydog) and [Summer](wiki:Summer). Jon is awakened from the dream by [Jeor Mormont](wiki:Jeor_Mormont)'s raven. He resides in the old quarters of [Donal Noye](wiki:Donal_Noye), since [Stannis](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) occupies the King’s Tower and the Lord Commander’s Tower has burned down. He reflects that Ghost knows that [Grey Wind](wiki:Grey_Wind) is dead, but his other brothers' wolves are still alive. His wolf dreams are becoming more vivid and more frequent, and he wonders if part of [Bran](wiki:Bran_Stark) and [Rickon](wiki:Rickon_Stark) survive in their wolves.

As [Lord Commander of the Night's Watch](wiki:Lord_Commander_of_the_Night's_Watch), Jon heads off to treat with King Stannis, who has requested his presence. As Jon crosses the yard, he gives advice to sparring recruits and is challenged to a duel by Ser [Godry Farring](wiki:Godry_Farring), from Stannis’ retinue, but ignores the challenge. On the steps up, he runs into [Sam](wiki:Samwell_Tarly) before finally arriving at the King's Tower.

Stannis has been unsuccessful in seeking allegiance from the lords of the North; the latest rejection letter is from [Lyanna Mormont](wiki:Lyanna_Mormont). So far, the only house to have declared for him is [House Karstark](wiki:House_Karstark). Stannis asks for gold from the Night's Watch to pay off [Salladhor Saan](wiki:Salladhor_Saan). Jon recommends he take [White Harbor](wiki:White_Harbor) for that, but Stannis dismisses its lord, [Wyman Manderly](wiki:Wyman_Manderly), as fat and useless. With [wildling](wiki:Wildling) refugees still seeking shelter south of the wall, they discuss [Mance Rayder](wiki:Mance_Rayder), whom Stannis intends to burn as a deserter, his wife's sister [Val](wiki:Val), and his child. Jon mentions that [Gilly](wiki:Gilly) is acting as wet nurse for her own child and Mance's, and that he plans to send her and her babe away south. Stannis approves once he learns that Gilly's child was born of incest.

Stannis is demanding lands and castles from the Night's Watch. Jon has already ceded land in The Gift, and refuses to let him have the castles. He offers instead to have his own officers man the abandoned forts, to command Stannis' men as a garrison. Stannis grumbles and threatens Jon before allowing him to leave. [Melisandre](wiki:Melisandre), the priestess of [R'hllor](wiki:R'hllor), follows Jon out from the meeting. Jon is wary of her but she warns him not to refuse her friendship, saying that she has seen him in her visions. Underneath the Wall, she tells him to be wary of foes behind his back and daggers in the dark. Jon assures her he is aware he has enemies in the Watch, to which Melisandre replies *"You know nothing, Jon Snow"*.
