## Narrative Arc

[Tyrion](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) is in the cabin of a ship fleeing across the [narrow sea](wiki:Narrow_sea), perpetually drunk and wracked with guilt over his betrayal of the [Lannisters](wiki:House_Lannister) and murder of [his father](wiki:Tywin_Lannister), as well as his anxiety over the fate of [Tysha](wiki:Tysha), whom he now knows to be the only woman ever to have truly loved him.

Having escaped and found passage across the sea thanks to [Varys](wiki:Varys), he ponders where he might be going. He decides he would prefer to go to [Dorne](wiki:Dorne) so he can raise his niece [Myrcella](wiki:Myrcella_Baratheon) to the [Iron Throne](wiki:Iron_Throne). Once the ship reaches port he is bundled into a barrel and smuggled off the ship, finding himself in [Pentos](wiki:Pentos), in the home of [Magister](wiki:Magister) [Illyrio Mopatis](wiki:Illyrio_Mopatis).

Tyrion spends a day wandering around Illyrio's home talking to his servants and plotting escape. He discovers [a patch of poisonous mushrooms](wiki:Tyrion's_mushrooms) and picks them before passing out. He meets a courtesan of Illyrio's who has been assigned to him, threatening her before heading off to dinner with the Magister.

He is eventually served a dish of mushrooms and contemplates whether Illyrio is trying to poison him, and whether it would not be best just to eat some and be done with it. Illyrio goads him before eating some of the mushrooms himself and asking Tyrion of his intentions. He informs Tyrion that [Stannis](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) is at the [Wall](wiki:Wall), and says that neither Stannis at the Wall nor Myrcella in Dorne is a viable candidate for support in the game of thrones. Mopatis claims that Westeros is in need of a savior from across the sea. When Tyrion asks who that would be, he replies "[A dragon with three heads](wiki:House_Targaryen)".
