---
name: 129 AC
proposed_type: unknown
wiki_url: https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/129_AC
first_available: ''  # to be filled by extraction agent
scraped_date: 2026-04-13
note: "Does not fit current node types. Candidate for review."
---

## Summary

Year 129 After the Conquest (129 AC) is a year in the Westerosi calendar, the 129th after Aegon's crowning in Oldtown that maesters and educated people use as a reference to date the years.

## Article Sections

- Events
- Births
- Deaths
- Marriages
- Titles and Positions
- References

## Full Text

Year 129 After the Conquest (129 AC) is a year in the Westerosi calendar, the 129th after Aegon's crowning in Oldtown that maesters and educated people use as a reference to date the years.

129 AC was marked by the death of King Viserys I Targaryen, which was immediately followed by the beginning of the civil war known as the Dance of the Dragons, where both Prince Aegon Targaryen and Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen claimed their fathers crown. The war knew many deaths, and lasted from the death of King Viserys, on the third day of the third month of 129 AC, until halfway in 131 AC.

Contents

1 Events

2 Births

3 Deaths

4 Marriages

5 Titles and Positions

6 References

Events[ ]

The Dance of the Dragons begins.

The assault on Harrenhal by Daemon Targaryen.

The fight above Shipbreaker Bay between Lucerys Velaryon and Aemond Targaryen.

The Battle of the Burning Mill and the taking of Stone Hedge.

The sack of Duskendale.

The battle at Rook's Rest.

The Sowing of the Seeds.

Births[ ]

Visenya Targaryen.

Deaths[ ]

King Viserys I Targaryen, on the third day of the third month, in his sleep.

Princess Visenya Targaryen, stillborn.

Lyman Beesbury, killed by Ser Criston Cole.

Prince Lucerys Velaryon, slain by Prince Aemond Targaryen.

The dragon Arrax, slain by the dragon Vhagar.

Prince Jaehaerys Targaryen, murdered by Blood.

Ser Arryk Cargyll, slain by his twin Ser Erryk.

Ser Erryk Cargyll, slain by his twin Ser Arryk.

Princess Rhaenys Targaryen, slain at Rook's Rest.

The dragon Meleys, slain at Rook's Rest.

Ser Steffon Darklyn, killed by the dragon Seasmoke while attempting to mount the dragon.

Gormon Massey, killed by the dragon Vermithor while attempting to become a dragon rider.

Silver Denys, killed by the dragon Sheepstealer while attempting to become a dragon rider.

Marriages[ ]

Prince Aemond Targaryen betroths himself to a daughter of Lord Borros Baratheon.

Titles and Positions[ ]

Prince Aegon Targaryen is crowned as King Aegon II Targaryen.

Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen is crowned by her husband, Prince Daemon Targaryen, as Queen Rhaenyra I Targaryen.

Ser Tyland Lannister is named master of coin.

References[ ]

↑    A Game of Thrones, Appendix.

↑                The Princess and the Queen.

↑   The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aegon II.

↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The Westerlands: House Lannister Under the Dragons.
