---
name: 283 AC
proposed_type: unknown
wiki_url: https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/283_AC
first_available: ''  # to be filled by extraction agent
scraped_date: 2026-04-13
note: "Does not fit current node types. Candidate for review."
---

## Summary

Year 283 After the Conquest (283 AC) is a year in the Westerosi calendar, the 283rd after Aegon's crowning in Oldtown that maesters and educated people use as a reference to date the years.

## Article Sections

- Events
- Births
- Deaths
- References

## Full Text

Year 283 After the Conquest (283 AC) is a year in the Westerosi calendar, the 283rd after Aegon's crowning in Oldtown that maesters and educated people use as a reference to date the years.

283 AC saw the second half of Robert's Rebellion, which ended with the death of Prince Rhaegar Targaryen on the Trident, and with the deaths of King Aerys II Targaryen and Prince Aegon Targaryen during the Sack of King's Landing. Queen Rhaella Targaryen had fled the city with her son, Prince Viserys Targaryen, whilst pregnant with Aerys' last child, Daenerys Targaryen. The Sack of King's Landing was followed by the coronation of Robert Baratheon as the new king, the lifting of the Siege of Storm's End and the death of Lyanna Stark at the Tower of Joy.

Contents

1 Events

2 Births

3 Deaths

4 References

Events[ ]

The Battle of the Bells is fought between the royalist army and ther rebels. The victory belongs to the rebels, though the royalist army manages to pull back in good order.

Due to the outcome of the Battle of the Bells, Lord Jon Connington is fired from the office of Hand of the King. Lord Qarlton Chelsted is named in his stead.

Besides being fired as Hand of the King, Jon Connington is stripped of his lands and exiled by King Aerys II Targaryen.

Wedding of Eddard Stark and Catelyn Tully, and Jon Arryn and Lysa Tully, at Riverrun after the Battle of the Bells.

Ser Barristan Selmy and Ser Jon Darry are sent out by King Aerys II Targaryen to regroup the royalist army in the Riverlands.

Ser Gerold Hightower is send out by King Aerys II Targaryen to find Prince Rhaegar Targaryen.

Crown Prince Rhaegar Targaryen returns from the south and marshals an army.

King Aerys II Targaryen begins plotting the Wildfire plot with his pyromancers.

Upon discovering the wildfire plot, Lord Qarlton Chelsted resigns as Hand of the King. For this act, King Aerys II Targaryen has him burned alive. The pyromancer Rossart is named Hand of the King in his stead.

The Battle of the Trident, deciding victory for the rebels.

The Sack of King's Landing.

Robert Baratheon is crowned King.

Eddard Stark lifts the siege of Storm's End.

Battle at Tower of Joy.

Births[ ]

Bella, a girl from the Riverlands, bastard daughter of Robert Baratheon.

Desmera Redwyne, daughter of Paxter Redwyne and Mina Tyrell.

Jeyne Westerling, daughter of Gawen Westerling and Sybell Spicer.

Jon Snow, bastard son of Eddard Stark by an unknown woman.

Lucos Chyttering, son of Lord Chyttering.

Margaery Tyrell, daughter of Mace Tyrell and Alerie Hightower.

Meera Reed, daughter of Howland Reed and Jyana.

Robb Stark, son of Eddard Stark and Catelyn Tully.

Robert Frey, son of Raymund Frey and Beony Beesbury.

Samwell Tarly, son of Randyll Tarly and Melessa Florent.

(Roughly) Del, a wildling.

Deaths[ ]

Ser Myles Mooton slain by Robert Baratheon during the Battle of the Bells.

Denys Arryn slain by Jon Connington during the Battle of the Bells.

Lord Qarlton Chelsted, burned alive after his resignation as Hand of the King.

Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, slain by Robert Baratheon on the Trident.

Prince Lewyn Martell, slain during the Battle of the Trident.

Ser Jonothor Darry, slain during Battle of the Trident.

Lord Rossart, Hand of the King, slain by Jaime Lannister during the Sack of King's Landing.

King Aerys II Targaryen, killed by Jaime Lannister during the Sack of King's Landing.

Prince Aegon Targaryen, dashed against a wall by Gregor Clegane during the Sack of King's Landing.

Princess Elia Martell, raped and murdered by Gregor Clegane during the Sack of King's Landing.

Princess Rhaenys Targaryen, stabbed half a hundred times by Amory Lorch during the Sack of King's Landing.

The Pisswater prince, the infant who reportedly died in place of Aegon Targaryen.

Gawen Wylde, died in the cells of Storm's End.

Ser Gerold Hightower, at the Tower of Joy.

Ser Arthur Dayne, at the Tower of Joy.

Ser Oswell Whent, at the Tower of Joy.

Lyanna Stark, in unknown circumstances.

Ashara Dayne, jumped from a tower at Starfall into the sea.

References[ ]

↑ See the calculation for: Bella

↑ See the calculation for: Desmera Redwyne

↑ See the calculation for: Jeyne Westerling

↑ See the calculation for: Jon Snow

↑ See the calculation for: Lucos Chyttering

↑ See the calculation for: Margaery Tyrell

↑ See the calculation for: Meera Reed

↑ See the calculation for: Robb Stark

↑ See the calculation for: Robert Frey (son of Raymund)

↑ See the calculation for: Samwell Tarly

↑ See the calculation for: Del

↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The Stormlands: House Baratheon.
