---
name: 290 AC
proposed_type: unknown
wiki_url: https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/290_AC
first_available: ''  # to be filled by extraction agent
scraped_date: 2026-04-13
note: "Does not fit current node types. Candidate for review."
---

## Summary

Year 290 After the Conquest (290 AC) is a year in the Westerosi calendar, the 290th after Aegon's crowning in Oldtown that maesters and educated people use as a reference to date the years.

## Article Sections

- Events
- Births
- Deaths
- Titles and appointments
- References

## Full Text

Year 290 After the Conquest (290 AC) is a year in the Westerosi calendar, the 290th after Aegon's crowning in Oldtown that maesters and educated people use as a reference to date the years.

In 290 AC peace once again returned to the Seven Kingdoms after the end of the Greyjoy Rebellion. In Essos, meanwhile, exiles Viserys and Daenerys Targaryen see their situation growing more dire, as they find themselves out on the streets.

Contents

1 Events

2 Births

3 Deaths

4 Titles and appointments

5 References

Events[ ]

Ser Willem Darry falls sick in Braavos when Daenerys Targaryen is five years old. This occurred either in 289 AC, or in 290AC

Births[ ]

Brandon Stark, also known as Bran, son of Eddard Stark and Catelyn Tully.

Cynthea Frey, daughter of Geremy Frey and Carolei Waynwood. 

Elmar Frey, son of Walder Frey and Annara Farring. There are rumours that Black Walder Frey is Elmars biological father.

Lyanna Mormont, daughter of Maege Mormont.

Princess Myrcella Baratheon, legally the daughter of King Robert Baratheon and Queen Cersei Lannister. Her biological father is Jaime Lannister.

Robert Brax, son of Flement Brax and Morya Frey.

Rollam Westerling, son of Gawen Westerling and Sybell Spicer.

Walder Goodbrook, son of Garse Goodbrook and Kyra Frey.

Deaths[ ]

No known deaths occurred in 290 AC.

Titles and appointments[ ]

Ser Arys Oakheart joined the Kingsguard.

References[ ]

↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire,  Daenerys Targaryen.

↑ See the calculation for: Brandon Stark (Bran)

↑ See the calculation for: Cynthea Frey

↑ See the calculation for: Elmar Frey 

↑ See the calculation for: Lyanna Mormont

↑ See the calculation for: Myrcella Baratheon

↑ See the calculation for: Robert Brax (son of Flement)

↑ See the calculation for: Rollam Westerling

↑ See the calculation for: Walder Goodbrook

↑ A Feast for Crows, Chapter 13, The Soiled Knight.
