---
name: 50 AC
proposed_type: unknown
wiki_url: https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/50_AC
first_available: ''  # to be filled by extraction agent
scraped_date: 2026-04-13
note: "Does not fit current node types. Candidate for review."
---

## Summary

Year 50 After the Conquest (50 AC) is a year in the Westerosi calendar, the 50th after Aegon's crowning in Oldtown that maesters and educated people use as a reference to date the years.

## Article Sections

- Events
- Deaths
- Titles and Positions
- References

## Full Text

Jaehaerys showing Vermithor to Rogar, as depicted by Douglas Wheatley in Fire & Blood.

Year 50 After the Conquest (50 AC) is a year in the Westerosi calendar, the 50th after Aegon's crowning in Oldtown that maesters and educated people use as a reference to date the years.

Regent Queen Alyssa and the Hand Rogar Baratheon ruled in King's Landing, trying to find a way to undo the secret marriage of Jaehaerys and Alysanne. When they failed and the realm began to be aware of their union, they clashed and Alyssa dismissed her husband from his position of Hand of the King. On the ninth moon of the year, Jaehaerys came of age and flew to King's Landing to assume the rule of the realm in person.

In the Wall, two former knights of the Kingsguard lead a rebellion of former Poor Fellows and Warrior's Sons. The uprising was short-lived, but Lord Walton Stark died in the fight.

Contents

1 Events

2 Deaths

3 Titles and Positions

4 References

Events[ ]

Ser Olyver Bracken and Ser Raymund Mallery, the former Kingsguard of Maegor that had been sent to the wall by Jaehaerys, rebel against the Watch and try to establish themselves as lords in the castles of Rimegate and Sable Hall. Most of the rebels were former Poor Fellows and Warrior's Sons that had been sent to the Wall, but only a tenth of the men of the Watch joined them. The revolt is terminated quickly, due the loyalty of most men of the Watch and the help of House Stark.

Ser Orryn Baratheon is captured by the High Septon while attempting to kidnap Rhaella Targaryen.

On the 15th day of the 6th moon, Ser Howard Bullock abandons his wife and leaves Dragonstone with Coryanne Wylde.

On the 20th day of the 9th moon, Jaehaerys I Targaryen becomes 16, ending her mother's Regency.

Deaths[ ]

Lord Marq Farman.

Lord Walton Stark, killed while putting down an uprising at the Night's Watch.

Ser Olyver Bracken executed by Lord Walton Stark for mutiny against the Night's Watch.

Ser Raymund Mallery, killed by wildlings, north of The Wall.

Titles and Positions[ ]

Lucinda Tully takes charge of Alysanne Targaryen's household at Dragonstone.

Septa Ysabel, aided by novices Lyra and Edyth, are entrusted with Alysanne Targaryen's religious education.

Ella Broome, Jennis Templeton, Coryanne Wylde, Rosamund Ball, and lord Celtigar's two daughters join the queen's household.

Rogar Baratheon is dismissed as Hand of the King by his wife, regent Alyssa Velaryon

Alyssa Velaryon's tenure as regent ends with the coming of age of king Jaehaerys.

Prentys Tully is replaced by Albin Massey as Master of Laws.

Edwell Celtigar is replaced by Rego Draz as Master of Coin.

Septon Mattheus is dismissed from court by King Jaehaerys I, he was replaced by Septon Barth who came from Highgarden. According to the legend, Mattheus passed Barth coming in the other direction whilst crossing the Mander at Bitterbridge.

References[ ]

↑      Fire & Blood, A Surfeit of Rulers.
