## Appearances & Description

Reznak is a small man, fleshy and bald from age. He wears lots of perfume. He speaks the local form of [bastard Valyrian](wiki:High_Valyrian) with a thick accent.(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwd2.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-0) His smile seems slimy and oily.(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwd55.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0) Reznak's manner of speech tends to be excessively flattering towards his superiors.(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwdappendix.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0)

## Narrative Arc

### A Dance with Dragons

After [Daenerys Targaryen](wiki:Daenerys_Targaryen) takes Meereen, Reznak serves her as seneschal, though Dany is often mistrustful of the man. Her suspicion grows after [Quaithe](wiki:Quaithe)'s warning to "beware the [perfumed seneschal](wiki:Perfumed_seneschal)";(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwd2.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-1) it is unknown if this refers to Reznak or not. Ser [Barristan Selmy](wiki:Barristan_Selmy) shares his queen's mistrust of the man, believing that a man should smell of sweat, not perfume.(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwd55.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-1) Reznak opposes much of the advice [Skahaz mo Kandaq](wiki:Skahaz_mo_Kandaq) gives Daenerys on how to handle the [Sons of the Harpy](wiki:Sons_of_the_Harpy).(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwd23.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-0)

When [Hizdahr zo Loraq](wiki:Hizdahr_zo_Loraq) becomes King of Meereen(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwd59.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-0) after Daenerys's disappearance,(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwd52.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-0) Reznak is one of the few of Daenerys's council who are not dismissed.(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwd59.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-1) When Skahaz and Barristan agree to take over the rule of [Meereen](wiki:Meereen), they decide to take Reznak into custody until they can be certain of his loyalty. However, during the night of the coupe, the dragons [Viserion](wiki:Viserion) and [Rhaegal](wiki:Rhaegal) escape. It is Reznak who rushes to Hizdahr's chambers to inform him of this, while Barristan is present. His appearance makes Barristan wonder if something went wrong in their plans.(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwd67.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_8-0) It is implied that Reznak was eventually taken into custody,(wiki:Reznak_mo_Reznak.cite_ref-Radwd70.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_9-0) following Hizdahr's own arrest.
