## Narrative Arc

### A Storm of Swords[ ]

During the [siege of Meereen](wiki:Siege_of_Meereen) led by [Daenerys Targaryen](wiki:Daenerys_Targaryen), [Oznak zo Pahl](wiki:Oznak_zo_Pahl) is the champion of the [Great Masters](wiki:Great_Masters). He is slain in single combat by [Belwas](wiki:Belwas).(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Rasos57.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-0)

### A Dance with Dragons[ ]

Oznak's father, commander of the Meereenese city watch, dies defending the city gates after [Joso's Cock](wiki:Joso's_Cock) smashes them. Oznak's three uncles are among the one hundred and sixty-three slavers Daenerys orders to be disemboweled and nailed to posts in Meereen's plaza in revenge for the one hundred and sixty-three slave children that had suffered the same fate under the Great Masters' orders.(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd2.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0)
With all of the Pahl men now slain, the House of Pahl is now ruled by the women of the family. According to [Skahaz mo Kandaq](wiki:Skahaz_mo_Kandaq), they are bitter old women with a taste for blood.(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd2.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-1) He suspects the surviving members of the House of being part of the [Sons of the Harpy](wiki:Sons_of_the_Harpy).(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd2.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-2)
In their shadow war against Daenerys, the Sons of the Harpy kill men and women loyal to Daenerys in the night, leaving their corpses on the streets of Meereen. Hoping to stop the murders, Daenerys has every noble family of Meereen who is of dubious loyalty send her a child as a hostage.(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd11.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0) [Kezmya](wiki:Kezmya_Pahl) is a hostage sent by the House of Pahl.(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd30.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-0)(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd67.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-0) Although Daenerys had threatened to kill the hostages if the murders continue, the Sons of the Harpy continue their ways. Daenerys, who has grown fond of all her child hostages, refuses to allow any harm to come to them, however, and ignores the counsel of Skahaz to kill one for every death done by the Sons of the Harpy.(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd23.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-0)
When several Meereenese ships join the blockade of Meereen, Skahaz presents Daenerys a list of the names of the Meereenese captains and which families they belong to, with House Pahl among the names.(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd30.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-1)
Daenerys's [column](wiki:Column) passes between the [pyramid of Naqqan](wiki:Pyramid_of_Naqqan) and the [pyramid of Pahl](wiki:Pyramid_of_Pahl) when en route to [Daznak's Pit](wiki:Daznak's_Pit). While in Daznak's Pit, Daenerys sees members of the House of Pahl occupying the red and orange benches, wearing striped pink and white [tokars](wiki:Tokar). When [Drogon](wiki:Drogon) flies into the pit and begins eating a [boar](wiki:Boar) and a slain [pit fighter](wiki:Pit_fighter), Daenerys notices the Pahls fleeing, along with many others.(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd52.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)
When Daenerys disappears on Drogon's back and Ser [Barristan Selmy](wiki:Barristan_Selmy) seizes control of Meereen in her name, he also refuses to allow any harm to come to the [child hostages](wiki:Cupbearers_of_Daenerys_Targaryen), even though Skahaz mo Kandaq wants to kill them in return for the deaths of the hostages Daenerys had granted to the [besiegers of Meereen](wiki:Second_siege_of_Meereen).(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd67.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-1)

## Quotes

You have no lack of enemies, [Your Grace](wiki:Daenerys_Targaryen). You can see their pyramids from your terrace. [Zhak](wiki:House_of_Zhak), [Hazkar](wiki:House_of_Hazkar), [Ghazeen](wiki:House_of_Ghazeen), [Merreq](wiki:House_of_Merreq), [Loraq](wiki:House_of_Loraq), all the old slaving families. Pahl. Pahl, most of all. A house of women now. Bitter old women with a taste for blood. Women do not forget. Women do not forgive.(wiki:House_of_Pahl.cite_ref-Radwd2.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-6)
