## Origins

In [43 AC](wiki:43_AC),(wiki:Pater.cite_ref-3) during the [Faith Militant uprising](wiki:Faith_Militant_uprising), King [Maegor](wiki:Maegor_I_Targaryen) and his mother, Dowager Queen [Visenya Targaryen](wiki:Visenya_Targaryen), after several victorious battles against the [Faith Militant](wiki:Faith_Militant), turned towards [Oldtown](wiki:Oldtown), threatening to incinerate the [Starry Sept](wiki:Starry_Sept) in response to the [High Septon](wiki:High_Septon_(Aenys_I))'s condemnation of Maegor's [polygamous marriages](wiki:Polygamy).(wiki:Pater.cite_ref-Rtsotd.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)(wiki:Pater.cite_ref-Rtwoiaf_the_reach:_oldtown.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-1)

The High Septon died suddenly before the [Targaryens](wiki:House_Targaryen) and their [dragons](wiki:Dragon) arrived, allowing Lord [Martyn Hightower](wiki:Martyn_Hightower) to open his gates before [Balerion](wiki:Balerion) and [Vhagar](wiki:Vhagar) could burn the city.(wiki:Pater.cite_ref-Rtwoiaf_the_reach:_oldtown.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-2) Rumors about the nature of the High Septon's death still persist today. As he had been in good health, some have suggested that he had committed suicide, either to save himself from Maegor's wroth or to spare Oldtown from [dragonflame](wiki:Dragonflame). Others believe that [the gods](wiki:Faith_of_the_Seven) themselves had struck him down. Most believe he had been murdered, although opinions differ about the murderer's identity. In any case, the [Most Devout](wiki:Most_Devout) were roused from their beds and marched at spearpoint by [House Hightower](wiki:House_Hightower) men-at-arms to the Starry Sept to elect a new High Septon. The frail and amiable Septon Pater was named the new High Septon by a single ballot, though he nearly collapsed under the weight of the crystal crown when it was placed on his head.(wiki:Pater.cite_ref-Rtsotd.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)

The new High Septon was happy to welcome Maegor when he arrived at Oldtown, and blessed and anointed his head with holy oils, although he forgot the words of the blessing. He formally dissolved the [Warrior's Sons](wiki:Warrior's_Sons) and [Poor Fellows](wiki:Poor_Fellows), commanding the surviving members of the Faith Militant to lay down their arms in the name of the gods. He proclaimed that the Seven had no more need of warriors, and that henceforth the [Iron Throne](wiki:Iron_Throne) would protect and defend the Faith. King Maegor allowed the surviving members of the Faith Militant until year's end to surrender their weapons, but afterwards a bounty would be placed on those remaining defiant. Neither the new High Septon nor the Most Devout disagreed with the king.(wiki:Pater.cite_ref-Rtsotd.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-4)

The High Septon died in [44 AC](wiki:44_AC), most likely due to old age, and was replaced by [another](wiki:High_Lickspittle) who spoke no word against King Maegor or his queens.(wiki:Pater.cite_ref-Rtsotd.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-5)

## Appearances & Description

By [43 AC](wiki:43_AC), [Septon](wiki:Septon) Pater was ninety years old, blind, stooped, and feeble. He was known to be famously amiable, though he had grown forgetful in his late years.(wiki:Pater.cite_ref-Rtsotd.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-1)
