## Narrative Arc

At [Castle Black](wiki:Castle_Black) [Melisandre](wiki:Melisandre) is preparing to burn [Mance Rayder](wiki:Mance_Rayder) in a cage made out of wood from the [haunted forest](wiki:Haunted_forest), despite [Jon](wiki:Jon_Snow)'s pleas to King [Stannis](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) to spare him. At the sight of the cage, Mance's courage fails and he goes to his death begging for mercy, denying his kingship and his name and shrieking of witchcraft. Melisandre burns the [Horn of Joramun](wiki:Horn_of_Joramun) as well, so that the Wall can never fall. As the cage burns Jon orders his bowmen to shoot Mance with arrows, a fitting end for a man of the [Night's Watch](wiki:Night's_Watch). Melisandre proclaims to the assembled [wildlings](wiki:Wildlings) that Stannis is their true King, [Azor Ahai](wiki:Azor_Ahai) reborn. Stannis draws [Lightbringer](wiki:Lightbringer) which is blindingly bright, and promises all who serve him food, land and justice. The gates of the [Wall](wiki:Wall) are opened and most of the captive wildlings enter to kneel before Stannis, feeding the fire with fragments of [weirwood](wiki:Weirwood), pieces of the [old gods](wiki:Old_gods) to feed [R'hllor](wiki:R'hllor)'s fires.
[Bowen Marsh](wiki:Bowen_Marsh) thinks it is wrong to let thousands of wildlings south of the Wall, and would prefer to seal the gates and let the wildlings defend the northern side. Many of the men of the Night's Watch are also muttering against the perception that Jon has taken Stannis' side in the game of thrones. Jon denies this, but says that the outcome of the struggle is unclear following the death of [Tywin Lannister](wiki:Tywin_Lannister). Jon shares a cup of wine with [Clydas](wiki:Clydas), telling him that Maester [Aemon](wiki:Aemon_Targaryen_(son_of_Maekar_I)) had shown him a passage in the [Jade Compendium](wiki:Jade_Compendium) describing [Lightbringer](wiki:Lightbringer) as both bright and fearfully hot. He notes that although Stannis's sword radiates light, it produces no heat.
