## Narrative Arc

[Emmon Frey](wiki:Emmon_Frey), now Lord of [Riverrun](wiki:Riverrun) in fact as well as name, demands [Edmure Tully](wiki:Edmure_Tully)'s head. Ser [Jaime](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) will not accede, though he is sorely tempted since Edmure betrayed his concessions by helping his uncle, Ser [Brynden](wiki:Brynden_Tully), to escape the castle when he turned it over to the [Lannisters](wiki:House_Lannister). Despite a massive search for Lord [Hoster](wiki:Hoster_Tully)'s brother, Jaime knows the Blackfish will not be found, nor will he abandon the fight. Before being escorted west to [Casterly Rock](wiki:Casterly_Rock) as a noble prisoner, Ser Edmure speaks his mind, "You will never know how sick it makes me to see you in this room, Kingslayer. You will never know how much I despise you."
Later, Lady [Sybell Westerling](wiki:Sybell_Spicer) and her daughter, the widowed Queen [Jeyne Stark](wiki:Jeyne_Westerling), are brought before Jaime. Jeyne is in mourning for her husband and defiant to her mother, but when Sybell moves to slap her, Jaime intervenes and kindly asks Jeyne to leave the solar. Jaime confirms to Lady Sybell that House Westerling has its pardon, her brother has been named Lord of Castamere and marriages will be arranged for her daughters, though Jeyne will have to wait two years before marrying again, to prevent rumours that any children she has are actually [Robb Stark](wiki:Robb_Stark)'s. Lady Sybell asks Jaime to inquire after her son, Ser [Raynald](wiki:Raynald_Westerling), who accompanied Robb to [the Twins](wiki:The_Twins), and had no knowledge of the arrangement between his mother and [Tywin Lannister](wiki:Tywin_Lannister). Jaime, suspecting that Raynald is likely dead as Walder Frey also didn't know of the arrangement, agrees to inquire, promising that House Lannister will pay his ransom if Raynald is held captive. She then mentions that Lord Tywin promised a high-born marriage for him, "that Raynald should have joy of him". Jaime understands this as Tywin intended to marry Raynald to his uncle [Gerion](wiki:Gerion_Lannister)'s natural daughter, [Joy Hill](wiki:Joy_Hill). Sybell shouts, "You want a Westerling to marry a bastard?". Jaime, desiring to strangle the woman with her own necklace, retorts "No more than I want Joy to marry the son of some scheming turncloak bitch. Your daughter is worth ten of you, my lady. You'll leave with Edmure and Ser [Forley](wiki:Forley_Prester) on the morrow. Until then, you would do well to stay out of my sight." He then contemplates how much Lord [Gawen](wiki:Gawen_Westerling) knew of his wife's schemes.
The following morning, Jaime warns Ser Forley Prester to guard Ser Edmure well, for fear either the Blackfish or [Beric Dondarrion](wiki:Beric_Dondarrion) might try to free him. The knight is aware of his orders to kill Edmure should he try to slip away. Jaime adds that he should do the same for Jeyne Stark, stating that she is twice as dangerous as Edmure, should she escape. Jaime then visits [Edwyn Frey](wiki:Edwyn_Frey), who is preparing his army to return to the Twins. Edwyn divulges that his father, Ser [Ryman](wiki:Ryman_Frey), along with his entire retinue, were hanged by Lady [Stoneheart](wiki:Catelyn_Tully) near [Fairmarket](wiki:Fairmarket). Although Edwyn blames Jaime, the Lord Commander is well aware that Edwyn couldn't care less that his father is dead. And although Edwyn is now heir to the Twins, Jaime knows that [Black Walder](wiki:Walder_Frey_(son_of_Ryman)) will probably soon move to kill his brother. Jaime's only real concern is that the [outlaws](wiki:Brotherhood_Without_Banners) must be getting bolder if they are willing to kill Lord Walder's heir only a day's ride from the Twins. Jaime takes his leave after inquiring about Ser Raynald's fate. Apparently, Queen Jeyne's brother was responsible for loosing [Grey Wind](wiki:Grey_Wind) on the Freys, and was shot full of quarrels before diving into the river. An offhand comment from Jaime about killing those responsible makes the Freys drop their smug attitude about the act.
Content that he has taken [Riverrun](wiki:Riverrun) without having to take up arms against the [Tullys](wiki:House_Tully) or [Starks](wiki:House_Stark), Jaime later agrees to allow Ser [Desmond Grell](wiki:Desmond_Grell) and Ser [Robin Ryger](wiki:Robin_Ryger) to [take the black](wiki:Night's_Watch), commanding [Raff the Sweetling](wiki:Rafford) to escort them to [Maidenpool](wiki:Maidenpool). During Lord Emmon's speech to the people of Riverrun, Jaime speaks with the singer he took from Ryman Frey earlier. He reveals himself as [Tom of Sevenstreams](wiki:Tom_of_Sevenstreams), and tells Jaime that he hopes to play for Lady [Genna](wiki:Genna_Lannister) and Lord Emmon over the winter. That night, Jaime dreams of his mother, Lady [Joanna](wiki:Joanna_Lannister), whom he barely remembers, but the dream disturbs him when his mother cries and asks who he really is. In the morning, Maester [Vyman](wiki:Vyman) delivers [Cersei](wiki:Cersei_Lannister)'s message written by [Qyburn](wiki:Qyburn). The old maester asks if Jaime wishes to respond, but the Kingsguard hands the letter to [Peck](wiki:Josmyn_Peckledon), saying, "No. Put this in the fire."
