## Appearances & Description

### Ruins[ ]

According to [maesters](wiki:Maesters) who served at the Nightfort, the castle was rebuilt many times over thousands of years, with only deep stone vaults remaining from its first form.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_wall_and_beyond:_the_night.27s_watch.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0)
The abandoned Nightfort has broken towers and a maze of tunnels connecting its vaults and tunnels. Buildings include a bell tower, a [rookery](wiki:Rookery), a brewhouse, an emptied library, a dungeon capable of holding five hundred prisoners, a bathhouse, an armory, and a forge. The rat-filled great hall only has one remaining wall. The kitchen is a stone octagon with a domed roof and contains a stepped well.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos56.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)
The Nightfort's yards have become small forests, a twisted [weirwood](wiki:Weirwood) grows through a hole in the kitchen, and there are also trees growing in the stables. The ground-level gate through the [Wall](wiki:Wall) is sealed with frozen stone and rubble.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos56.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)
Hidden in the kitchens' well, the [Black Gate](wiki:Black_Gate) is a [magical](wiki:Magic) subterranean gate that allows passage to the other side of the Wall and is as old as the Wall itself.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos56.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-4)

## Origins

The Nightfort was the largest castle on the [Wall](wiki:Wall), and the oldest, being twice as old as [Castle Black](wiki:Castle_Black).(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos56.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-5) Chronicles from the Nightfort described the ancient war at [Sea Dragon Point](wiki:Sea_Dragon_Point) of the [Kings of Winter](wiki:Kings_of_Winter), the [Starks](wiki:House_Stark) of [Winterfell](wiki:Winterfell), against the [Warg King](wiki:Warg_King) and the [children of the forest](wiki:Children_of_the_forest).(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_north:_the_kings_of_winter.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0)
The Nightfort is remembered in scary stories of the [north](wiki:North) dating back thousands of years. It was there that the [Night's King](wiki:Night's_King) reigned before his name was wiped from the memory of man, and where the [Rat Cook](wiki:Rat_Cook) served an [Andal](wiki:Andal) king ([Tywell II Lannister](wiki:Tywell_II_Lannister) or [Oswell I Arryn](wiki:Oswell_I_Arryn))(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_north.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-0) his prince-and-bacon pie. It is where the [seventy-nine sentinels](wiki:Seventy-nine_sentinels) stood their watch, where brave young [Danny Flint](wiki:Danny_Flint) was raped and murdered, and where King [Sherrit](wiki:Sherrit) called down his curse on the Andals of old. The Nightfort is where apprentice boys faced the [thing that came in the night](wiki:Thing_that_came_in_the_night), where blind [Symeon Star-Eyes](wiki:Symeon_Star-Eyes) saw [hellhounds](wiki:Hellhound) fight, and where [Mad Axe](wiki:Mad_Axe) walked the yards and climbed the towers to butcher his brothers in the dark.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos56.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-6) Some stories are described in Archmaester [Harmune](wiki:Harmune)'s [Watchers on the Wall](wiki:Watchers_on_the_Wall).(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_wall_and_beyond:_the_night.27s_watch.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-1)
Three hundred years before [Aegon's Conquest](wiki:Aegon's_Conquest), the commanders of the Nightfort and [Snowgate](wiki:Queensgate) went to war with each other. Eventually, both lost their heads to the Stark in Winterfell.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos55.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-0) At some point rangers from the Nightfort sealed the tunnel of [Arson Iceaxe](wiki:Arson_Iceaxe).(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos26.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-0)
With the dwindling of the [Night's Watch](wiki:Night's_Watch)'s power, the Nightfort had become three-quarters empty and too costly to maintain. [Benton Glover](wiki:Benton_Glover) escorted [Alysanne Targaryen](wiki:Alysanne_Targaryen) from Castle Black to the Nightfort during the queen's visit to the Wall in [58 AC](wiki:Years_after_Aegon's_Conquest). Alysanne convinced Lord Commander [Lothor Burley](wiki:Lothor_Burley) that the Nightfort, which she found unpleasant, should be abandoned for a new and smaller castle. The new castle, [Deep Lake](wiki:Deep_Lake) seven miles to the east, was paid for by the queen's jewels. The Nightfort was abandoned during the construction of Deep Lake and its last brothers were reassigned to Deep Lake.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos56.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-7)(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rfabjaehaerys_and_alysanne_-_their_triumphs_and_tragedies.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_8-0)

## Narrative Arc

### A Storm of Swords[ ]

[Bran Stark](wiki:Bran_Stark), [Hodor](wiki:Hodor), and [Meera](wiki:Meera_Reed) and [Jojen Reed](wiki:Jojen_Reed) arrive at the Nightfort to go [beyond the Wall](wiki:Beyond_the_Wall). Bran, remembering [Old Nan](wiki:Old_Nan)'s stories, is frightened of the ruins, but Jojen reassures him it is not dangerous. Meera climbs the ice steps to look from atop the [Wall](wiki:Wall).(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos56.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-8)
Meanwhile, [Coldhands](wiki:Coldhands) leads [Samwell Tarly](wiki:Samwell_Tarly) and [Gilly](wiki:Gilly) to the [Black Gate](wiki:Black_Gate), which Sam opens by saying the vow. Sam and Gilly pass through the Black Gate to cross the Wall, but Coldhands cannot enter the gate. Climbing the stepped well, Sam surprises Bran and his friends in the kitchen. Sam recognizes Bran as being [Jon Snow](wiki:Jon_Snow)'s brother, but agrees to keep the boy's secrets. Sam opens the Black Gate so Bran and his companions can cross the wall to meet Coldhands.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos56.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-9)
Following the [battle beneath the Wall](wiki:Battle_beneath_the_Wall), [Stannis Baratheon](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) tells Sam he intends to make the Nightfort his wartime seat.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos78.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_9-0)

### A Feast for Crows[ ]

Jon Snow, the new [Lord Commander of the Night's Watch](wiki:Lord_Commander_of_the_Night's_Watch), gives the Nightfort to Stannis after he demands it as payment for assisting with the wildling attack on the Wall.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Raffc5.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_10-0)

### A Dance with Dragons[ ]

After Jon cedes the Nightfort to Stannis, it is discovered that it will take half a year to make it fit for habitation.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Radwd3.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_11-0) Disliking [Eastwatch-by-the-Sea](wiki:Eastwatch-by-the-Sea), Queen [Selyse Florent](wiki:Selyse_Florent) arrives at [Castle Black](wiki:Castle_Black) on her way to occupy the Nightfort.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Radwd44.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_12-0) [Othell Yarwyck](wiki:Othell_Yarwyck) and his builders are sent by Jon to restore the castle.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Radwd35.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_13-0)

## Quotes

It is so huge the men seem dwarfed by it, like mice in a ruined hall, and there is a darkness there ... a taste in the air ... I was so glad to leave that place.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rfabjaehaerys_and_alysanne_-_their_triumphs_and_tragedies.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_8-1)
There are [ghosts](wiki:Ghosts) here.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Rasos56.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-10)
The [Wall](wiki:Wall) offered few of the comforts that [southron](wiki:Southron) ladies and little highborn girls were used to, and the Nightfort offered none. That was a grim place, even at the best of times.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Radwd10.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_14-0)
Davos: [His Grace](wiki:Stannis_Baratheon) has taken the Nightfort for his seat. In the south, he holds [Storm's End](wiki:Siege_of_Storm's_End_(300)) and [Dragonstone](wiki:Siege_of_Dragonstone). Theomore: Only for the nonce. Storm's End and Dragonstone are lightly held and must soon fall. And the Nightfort is a haunted ruin, a drear and dreadful place.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Radwd19.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_15-0)
We speak of a fortress, not a palace. A grim place, and cold.(wiki:Nightfort.cite_ref-Radwd44.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_12-1)
