---
name: "Death of Laenor Velaryon and Harwin Strong/Theories"
type: concept.theory
slug: death-of-laenor-velaryon-and-harwin-strong-theories
aliases: []
confidence: tier-2
wiki_source: "https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Death_of_Laenor_Velaryon_and_Harwin_Strong/Theories"
bucket_id: tier3-pathb-longtail
prompt_version: v1-python
node_version: 1
pass_origin: pass2-wiki-deterministic
---

## Identity

## Edges


## Origins

Septon Eustace's account claims that young Rhaenyra was infatuated with her uncle Daemon, and that he deflowered her. Daemon may have been trying to marry the heir to the throne to restore his place in succession, but his brother Viserys was instead so offended that he sent Daemon away from the royal court in [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing), forcing him to return to his campaigns in the [Stepstones](wiki:Stepstones). Soon after an arranged marriage was set between Rhaenyra and her cousin [Laenor Velaryon](wiki:Laenor_Velaryon). As Laenor had no interest in women, Rhaenyra became trapped in a loveless marriage.
Eustace also claims that Criston Cole was infatuated with Rhaenyra, and when her betrothal to Laenor was announced he privately confessed his love and begged her to run away with him to the [Free Cities](wiki:Free_Cities). Eustace says that Rhaenyra rejected his offer, both because she wanted the Iron Throne and would not settle for being a sellsword's wife, and because she was disgusted that he would abandon his vows as a kingsguard - if he could abandon those vows, marriage vows would mean nothing to him.(wiki:Death_of_Laenor_Velaryon_and_Harwin_Strong/Theories.cite_ref-Rfabheirs_of_the_dragon_-_a_question_of_succession.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)
Mushroom has an altogether different and more ribald version of events: he claims that it was Rhaenyra who was infatuated with Criston Cole. Mushroom goes on to give extravagant claims that Rhaenyra had some sort of dalliance with Daemon, "kissing lessons" and more - but all to learn how to more effectively seduce Ser Criston, for whom she still preserved her maidenhead. When Rhaenyra ultimately did try to seduce Criston, however, Mushroom's account says that he was horrified, and as a true knight stayed true to his vows and refused her. The whole tale soon came out, including Daemon's involvement in her "lessons", and he was so bold as to ask his brother the king to let him marry Rhaenyra - as no other man would have her now. It's possible that this was Daemon's true goal the entire time, knowing her attempt to seduce Criston would fail. Even if this was his plan it didn't work, as instead the furious Viserys exiled him from the royal court - particularly because Daemon was still married to [Rhea Royce](wiki:Rhea_Royce), a loveless match that Viserys nonetless refused to set aside.(wiki:Death_of_Laenor_Velaryon_and_Harwin_Strong/Theories.cite_ref-Rfabheirs_of_the_dragon_-_a_question_of_succession.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)
Years later, after Rhea died in a fall from a horse, Daemon was free to marry Laenor's sister [Laena Velaryon](wiki:Laena_Velaryon). While claimed to be for love this was probably for political reasons as well, as by that point Daemon and the Velaryons were outsiders at the royal court. Laena got along well with Daemon, and very well with her good-sister Rhaenyra, and they often visited each other between neighboring Driftmark and [Dragonstone](wiki:Dragonstone) island. Laena also gave Daemon twin daughters, Baela and Rhaena.
Rhaenyra, meanwhile, took little joy out of her marriage to Laenor. During the tourney held at their wedding feast, Criston Cole fought in a black rage, killing Laenor's lover [Joffrey Lonmouth](wiki:Joffrey_Lonmouth). Criston was replaced as Rhaenyra's sworn shield by [Harwin Strong](wiki:Harwin_Strong). Rhaenyra subsequently gave birth to her first son, [Jacaerys Velaryon](wiki:Jacaerys_Velaryon), but he looked nothing like Laenor: instead of classic Valyrian features of silver hair, purple eyes, and an aquiline nose, Jacaerys was brown of hair and eye, and had a pug nose. Rumors began to swirl that Jacaerys was really Harwin's bastard son. Nonetheless, Rhaenyra gave birth to two more sons with the same features: [Lucerys](wiki:Lucerys_Velaryon) and [Joffrey](wiki:Joffrey_Velaryon). All three sets of historical sources acknowledge that Aegon II and his mother Alicent Hightower's faction embraced and encouraged the rumors that Rhaenyra's sons were all bastards: Mushroom of course treats the salacious rumor as fact, while Eustace and Grand Master Runciter simply acknowledge that the rumors were widely circulated without confirming them.
Early in [120 AC](wiki:120_AC), Laena Velaryon died after a difficult childbirth (to a deformed and twisted son who only lived a few hours), leaving Daemon single and with no male heirs. Mere months later that same year, Rhaenyra's husband Laenor was killed.

### Counter-Points[ ]

Eustace claims that Criston Cole was infatuated with Rhaenyra, but she was infatuated with her uncle Daemon, and she spurned Cole's offer to run away with him due to wanting the Iron Throne and dishonoring his kingsguard vows. Mushroom claims that Rhaenyra was infatuated with Criston, but he stayed true to his vows and rejected her advances. Yet Mushroom's version does not offer an explanation for why Criston would then publicly fly into such a black fury at the tourney held in honor of Rhaenyra and Laenor's wedding that he killed one man and left half a dozen seriously injured. Based on his public reaction, it seems more likely that Rhaenyra had rejected Criston. Exactly why Rhaenyra really rejected Criston is still unclear in this scenario, as Eustace essentially wants to have it both ways: that Rhaenyra was a grasper who would not give up her aspirations on the Iron Throne, and that she was shocked that Criston would abandon his vows as a kingsguard. If Rhaenyra was more worried about usurping the throne from her younger half-brother, as Eustace alleges in his subsequent writings about the Dance of the Dragons, she wouldn't also care about him breaking his kingsguard vows. If it truly was the case that Rhaenyra rejected Criston, it was more likely due to one reason or the other, but not both.
Some fans have even suggested the possibility that all or some of Rhaenyra's alleged affairs with Criston Cole, Harwin Strong, and Daemon Targaryen never happened - and that she was truly having an affair with Laenor's sister, [Laena Velaryon](wiki:Laena_Velaryon). It may be alluded that Laena was attracted to women, as the maester of Driftmark noted that Laena showed "far more interest in flying than in boys".(wiki:Death_of_Laenor_Velaryon_and_Harwin_Strong/Theories.cite_ref-Rfabheirs_of_the_dragon_-_a_question_of_succession.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-4) Then there is the curious statement that Rhaenyra "became fond and more than fond of her good-sister Lady Laena. With Driftmark and Dragonstone so close, Daemon and Laena oft visited with the princess, and her with them."(wiki:Death_of_Laenor_Velaryon_and_Harwin_Strong/Theories.cite_ref-Rfabheirs_of_the_dragon_-_a_question_of_succession.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-5) This wouldn't explain why the historical sources say that Rhaenyra was so opposed to marrying Laenor, compared to other major lords in Westeros - unless of course, her tantrum to her father was all an elaborate ruse to hide the fact that she couldn't have asked for a better match, because it gave her an excuse to frequently visit Laenor's sister on Driftmark. In which case, it's possible that both Rhaenyra and Laenor only married to cover for each other. A point possibly supporting this is that the sources do not agree at all on what her final reaction to her father was when they argued about her arranged marriage to Laenor: Eustace says she broke down crying and pleading at the end, while Mushroom claims that at the end she spat in his face. It's possible that neither source had firsthand knowledge of what they actually said in private.
