## Narrative Arc

[Varys](wiki:Varys) shows [Tyrion](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) a message from [Winterfell](wiki:Winterfell) that reveals [Bran](wiki:Bran_Stark) and [Rickon](wiki:Rickon_Stark) were killed at the hands of [Theon Greyjoy](wiki:Theon_Greyjoy). Tyrion goes to tell [Cersei](wiki:Cersei_Lannister) the news, wanting very much to see her reaction. She tells him she could have frightened Bran into silence, but [Jaime](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) reacted without thinking. Tyrion tells her that they must take good care of [Sansa](wiki:Sansa_Stark), because with two of her sons dead, Lady [Catelyn](wiki:Catelyn_Tully) might decide to kill Jaime. Cersei warns him that he trusts Varys too much, telling him that the Spider feeds them all information to make them think they would be helpless without him. She reveals that Varys told her Tyrion meant to take [the Hound](wiki:Sandor_Clegane) from [Joffrey](wiki:Joffrey_Baratheon), and Tyrion explains he needs Sandor Clegane and Ser [Balon Swann](wiki:Balon_Swann) to lead sorties in the upcoming battle. Tyrion also informs her he means to give Joffrey a small command far out of the main fighting, so that the men can see their King leading them.

Cersei then springs a surprise on Tyrion, bringing out who she thinks is Tyrion’s whore, [Alayaya](wiki:Alayaya). The girl has been badly beaten, and the Queen reveals she did this because [a Lannister](wiki:House_Lannister) always pays her debts, and Tyrion has been conspiring against her since he arrived. Tyrion pretends to be horrified, but is relieved that his sister had not found [Shae](wiki:Shae). Cersei tells him the whore will not be harmed so long as [Tommen](wiki:Tommen_Baratheon) remains safe, but Tyrion bluffs by saying he will have Tommen treated the same way the girl is. Alayaya does not give Tyrion away, and goes along with the whole thing. Tyrion then threatens to pay Cersei back for what she did, when she least expects it. Having lost, the Queen shouts at him to get out. He finds Shae in his room, having come through the [secret passage](wiki:Secret_passage), but she was blindfolded by Varys and does not know where the entrance lies.
