## Origins

It is unknown where Lord [Petyr Baelish](wiki:Petyr_Baelish) originally acquired the dagger, or if it had any significance before he owned it. During the [tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day](wiki:Tourney_on_Prince_Joffrey's_name_day) in [298 AC](wiki:298_AC), Ser [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) faced Ser [Loras Tyrell](wiki:Loras_Tyrell) in the lists as the final match. Petyr bet on Jaime to win the joust, wagering his dagger, but lost it to King [Robert I Baratheon](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon), who had bet on Loras. [Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) bet on the match as well, but he had supported his brother Jaime and also lost his wager.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Rawoiafpetyr_baelish.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_10-0)(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-1)(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_11-0)(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Racok55.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_9-1)

## Narrative Arc

### A Game of Thrones[ ]

A [catspaw](wiki:Catspaw) sets a fire in the [Library Tower](wiki:Library_Tower) of [Winterfell](wiki:Winterfell) as a distraction and then tries to [assassinate](wiki:Assassin) the comatose [Bran Stark](wiki:Bran_Stark) in the [sickroom](wiki:Sickroom). Bran's mother, [Catelyn](wiki:Catelyn_Stark), fends off the assassin and the boy's [unnamed direwolf](wiki:Summer) kills the catspaw. The blade cuts Catelyn's fingers almost to the bone. Ser [Rodrik Cassel](wiki:Rodrik_Cassel) discovers the dagger has a blade of [Valyrian steel](wiki:Valyrian_steel) and a [dragonbone](wiki:Dragonbone) hilt, which is far too fine a weapon for a common man like the catspaw. At a confidential meeting with Catelyn, [Robb Stark](wiki:Robb_Stark), [Theon Greyjoy](wiki:Theon_Greyjoy), and Maester [Luwin](wiki:Luwin), Rodrik informs Catelyn, who then tells the others that her sister [Lysa Arryn](wiki:Lysa_Arryn) had sent a message accusing [House Lannister](wiki:House_Lannister) of the death of her husband, Lord [Jon Arryn](wiki:Jon_Arryn). Catelyn reminds them that [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) did not go hunting the day Bran fell from the [First Keep](wiki:First_Keep), and that she does not believe that Bran truly fell, but that he was pushed after he must have overheard something.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot14.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-2)
Seeking further proof of the Lannisters' involvement in the attacks on Bran,(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot14.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-3) Catelyn and Ser Rodrik travel to [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing) with the blood-stained knife to inform Lord [Eddard Stark](wiki:Eddard_Stark), the [Hand of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King) to [Robert I Baratheon](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon).(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-2) Rodrik first discusses the dagger with Ser [Aron Santagar](wiki:Aron_Santagar), the [master-at-arms](wiki:Master-at-arms) of the [Red Keep](wiki:Red_Keep), through which Lord [Varys](wiki:Varys) realizes Catelyn is in the capital. Varys informs Lord [Petyr Baelish](wiki:Petyr_Baelish), who has Catelyn summoned to them. Varys nicks his finger with the knife, and Petyr reveals that he had once owned the blade. Petyr states he lost it to [Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) during the [tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day](wiki:Tourney_on_Prince_Joffrey's_name_day), however, when Ser [Loras Tyrell](wiki:Loras_Tyrell) defeated Tyrion's brother, Ser [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister), in the lists.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-3) When Petyr and Catelyn discuss the dagger with Eddard, Petyr tells them that the dagger alone is not enough to prove House Lannister was behind the assassination attempt, and advises Eddard to get rid of the dagger.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot20.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-1) Eddard keeps the blade when his wife departs the capital.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot20.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-2)
Tyrion, who is called the Imp, is taken prisoner by Catelyn at the [crossroads inn](wiki:Crossroads_inn)(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot28.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_12-0) and brought to the [Eyrie](wiki:Eyrie), where he wins a [trial by combat](wiki:Trial_by_combat).(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot40.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_13-0) During his journeys, Tyrion insists to Catelyn(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_11-1) and [Bronn](wiki:Bronn)(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot42.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_14-0) that he never owned the dagger, and that he would always bet on Jaime during a tourney, never against him.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_11-2)
When King Robert returns mortally wounded from his hunt in the [kingswood](wiki:Kingswood), Eddard sheaths the Valyrian dagger at his waist.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot47.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_15-0) Petyr suggests to Eddard that they should gather support to seize Robert's children as Robert lays dying, to give them control over the kingdom. Eddard reminds Petyr of the men the Lannisters have killed, and shows him the dagger used in the attempt on Bran's life.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot47.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_15-1)
After the death of King Robert, his widow, Queen [Cersei Lannister](wiki:Cersei_Lannister), gains the support of Petyr and [Janos Slynt](wiki:Janos_Slynt) and his [gold cloaks](wiki:City_Watch_of_King's_Landing). When Eddard [confronts Cersei in the throne room and is taken captive](wiki:Arrest_of_Eddard_Stark), Petyr takes the dagger Eddard wears at his hip and shoves it under his chin.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot49.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-1)

### A Clash of Kings[ ]

[Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister), the acting [Hand of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King) for [Joffrey I Baratheon](wiki:Joffrey_Baratheon), desires to confront [Petyr Baelish](wiki:Petyr_Baelish) about the dagger.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Racok3.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_16-0) At some point, Petyr waits for Tyrion in his chambers at the [Tower of the Hand](wiki:Tower_of_the_Hand), where he offers the dagger to Tyrion as a gift. Tyrion declines, and realizes that Petyr is aware of the fact that Tyrion knows of his lie to [House Stark](wiki:House_Stark).(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Racok17.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_8-1)
When Petyr berates Tyrion about being lied to and tells him to leave him out of his deceptions in the future, Tyrion thinks he will only if it is mutual, noticing Littlefinger bearing the dagger sheathed at his hip.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Racok25.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_17-0)
In [Riverrun](wiki:Riverrun)'s dungeon, Ser [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) admits to having flung [Bran Stark](wiki:Bran_Stark) from the [First Keep](wiki:First_Keep) of [Winterfell](wiki:Winterfell) but denies Catelyn's accusation he later hired the [catspaw](wiki:Catspaw) to kill Bran. Jaime also insists that Tyrion would never have bet against him during [Joffrey's tourney](wiki:Tourney_on_Prince_Joffrey's_name_day), contradicting Petyr's claim that Tyrion won the dagger from Petyr by betting on Ser [Loras Tyrell](wiki:Loras_Tyrell) instead of Jaime. Jaime recalls the dagger changing hands, however, as a drunken King [Robert I Baratheon](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon) had displayed it at the tourney's feast.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Racok55.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_9-2)

### A Storm of Swords[ ]

While discussing the new swords ([Widow's Wail](wiki:Widow's_Wail) and [Oathkeeper](wiki:Oathkeeper)) made by [Tobho Mott](wiki:Tobho_Mott) from [Eddard Stark](wiki:Eddard_Stark)'s [Valyrian](wiki:Valyrian_steel) sword, [Ice](wiki:Ice), Lord [Tywin Lannister](wiki:Tywin_Lannister) tells his son [Tyrion](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) that King [Robert](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon) had a hundred daggers in his armory, but that the only knife the king ever used was a hunting knife he received in his youth from Lord [Jon Arryn](wiki:Jon_Arryn).(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Rasos32.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_18-0)
After receiving Widow's Wail from Tywin as a [wedding](wiki:Wedding) gift, King Joffrey I claims that he is "no stranger to Valyrian steel".(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Rasos59.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_19-0) Tyrion later concludes that Joffrey was behind the assassination attempt on Bran Stark, deducing that the then-prince had taken the plain-looking dagger, which Robert had forgotten after winning it from Petyr at the tourney, from the king's baggage train and given it to a lackey at Winterfell.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Rasos60.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-1)
After Joffrey's death at his [royal wedding](wiki:Purple_Wedding), Petyr Baelish uses the dagger to cut fruit, while talking to [Sansa Stark](wiki:Sansa_Stark) about truth and lies and hidden plots.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Rasos68.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_20-0)
[Cersei](wiki:Cersei_Lannister) and Jaime discuss the assassination attempt on Bran. Jaime briefly asks Cersei if she was involved, but she tells him not to be absurd and reminds him that they both hoped Bran would die after his fall. She says that even Robert hoped so, that in private with her and the children, he drunkenly complained that people are too weak to give the [gift of mercy](wiki:Gift_of_mercy) to crippled children. Jaime concludes that Joffrey tried to have Bran killed as a misguided attempt to impress Robert.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Rasos72.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_21-0) When Jaime frees Tyrion from the [Red Keep](wiki:Red_Keep)'s dungeon, the brothers agree that Joffrey had been responsible.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Rasos77.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-0)

## Quotes

We found the knife still in [the villain's](wiki:Catspaw) grasp. It seemed to me that it was altogether too fine a weapon for such a man, so I looked at it long and hard. The blade is [Valyrian steel](wiki:Valyrian_steel), the hilt [dragonbone](wiki:Dragonbone). A weapon like that has no business being in the hands of such as him. Someone gave it to him.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot14.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-4)
Petyr: Nothing holds an edge like [Valyrian steel](wiki:Valyrian_steel). Such sweet balance. You want to find the owner, is that the reason for this visit? You have no need of Ser [Aron](wiki:Aron_Santagar) for that, my lady. You should have come to me.Catelyn: And if I had, what would you have told me?Petyr: I would have told you that there was only one knife like this at [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing). It's mine.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-4)
It was not my dagger. How many times must I swear to that? Lady Stark, whatever you may believe of me, I am not a stupid man. Only a fool would arm a [common footpad](wiki:Catspaw) with his own blade.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot31.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_11-3)
He wondered which of them had sent [the footpad](wiki:Catspaw) to silence the Stark boy, and whether they had truly conspired at the death of Lord [Arryn](wiki:Jon_Arryn). If the old [Hand](wiki:Hand_of_the_King) had been murdered, it was deftly and subtly done. Men of his age died of sudden [illness](wiki:Illness) all the time. In contrast, sending some oaf with a stolen knife after [Brandon Stark](wiki:Bran_Stark) struck him as unbelievably clumsy.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Ragot38.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_23-0)
The dagger had been [Valyrian steel](wiki:Valyrian_steel), and Valyrian steel bites deep and sharp.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Racok22.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_24-0)
Cersei: Perhaps [Myrcella](wiki:Myrcella_Baratheon) sent [this man](wiki:Catspaw) with the dagger, do you think so?Jaime: Not Myrcella. [Joffrey](wiki:Joffrey_Baratheon).Cersei: Joffrey had no love for [Robb Stark](wiki:Robb_Stark), but the [younger boy](wiki:Bran_Stark) was nothing to him. He was only a child himself.Jaime: A child hungry for a pat on the head from [that sot](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon) you let him believe was his father. [Tyrion](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) almost died because of this bloody dagger. If he knew the whole thing was Joffrey's work, [that might be why](wiki:Purple_Wedding)...(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Rasos72.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_21-1)
Tyrion: [Joffrey](wiki:Joffrey_Baratheon) would have been a worse king than [Aerys](wiki:Aerys_II_Targaryen) ever was. He stole [his father's](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon) dagger and gave it to a [footpad](wiki:Catspaw) to slit the throat of [Brandon Stark](wiki:Bran_Stark), did you know that?Jaime: I ... I thought he might have.(wiki:Littlefinger's_blade.cite_ref-Rasos77.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_22-1)
