## Origins

During the [battle at Rook's Rest](wiki:Battle_at_Rook's_Rest), King [Aegon II Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_II_Targaryen) was badly injured. His brother Aemond was given command of the greens' forces in King's Landing, as [regent](wiki:Regent) for his brother until he recovered. An aggressive young man, Aemond decided to attack the [blacks](wiki:Blacks)' forces gathering at [Harrenhal](wiki:Harrenhal) under his uncle [Daemon](wiki:Daemon_Targaryen), before they had sufficient force to strike at the capital. Aemond devised a plan to catch the [riverlords](wiki:Riverlords) on two fronts, by having the [Lannister](wiki:House_Lannister) army invade the [riverlands](wiki:Riverlands) from the west, while he led their forces from King's Landing to attack from the east.(wiki:Aemond's_march_on_Harrenhal.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_triumphant.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-1)

Aemond led a force of 4,000 men in total out of King's Landing, also led by Ser [Criston Cole](wiki:Criston_Cole) of the [Kingsguard](wiki:Kingsguard), the [Hand of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King). Aegon II, Aemond, and Criston had previously led an army of more than 2,400 men to the [Battle at Rook's Rest](wiki:Battle_at_Rook's_Rest), where they lost some 800 men. While in King's Landing, Aemond reconstituted his forces, and sent forth all their remaining strength for the advance on Harrenhal. Aemond and Criston finally led a force of 4,000 men, mostly infantry, north up the [kingsroad](wiki:Kingsroad), expecting to reach Harrenhal after a sixteen day march.(wiki:Aemond's_march_on_Harrenhal.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_triumphant.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)

## Aftermath

On hearing of the [fall of King's Landing](wiki:Fall_of_King's_Landing) during their march away from the city, Aemond was consumed by fury, and turned it on [House Strong](wiki:House_Strong) of Harrenhal. Though they were allied with the greens, Aemond already loathed House Strong in general due to the rumors that Ser [Harwin Strong](wiki:Harwin_Strong) had been the true father of Rhaenyra's elder Velaryon sons, who Aemond had a grudge against due to losing an eye in a childhood fight with them. He also never fully trusted Lord [Larys Strong](wiki:Larys_Strong), the greens' [spymaster](wiki:Master_of_whisperers). Aemond became convinced that House Strong must have collaborated with the blacks. Indeed, Larys had not been apprehended when the blacks took King's Landing, but simply disappeared. Furthermore, his granduncle Ser [Simon Strong](wiki:Simon_Strong), the [castellan](wiki:Castellan) of Harrenhal, had [surrendered the castle to Daemon](wiki:Assault_on_Harrenhal) without a fight. Though Simon protested his innocence, insisting that he could not possibly have held a siege against Caraxes, Aemond commanded that Simon be given a sword in a [trial by combat](wiki:Trial_by_combat). Aemond had been well-trained by Criston Cole himself, while Simon was an old man; the resulting duel was utterly one-sided. Aemond cut Simon to pieces, then fed his corpse to Vhagar.(wiki:Aemond's_march_on_Harrenhal.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_triumphant.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-6)

Aemond then proceeded to massacre every male of House Strong, down to the last little grandson. The heap made of their severed heads ultimately stood three feet tall. No man or boy was spared, not even [bastards](wiki:Bastard) - except only one woman, [Alys Rivers](wiki:Alys_Rivers), whom Aemond took as a [bed-mate](wiki:Paramour), ignoring all other women. Men claimed that she was a [sorceress](wiki:Magic) who had bewitched him.(wiki:Aemond's_march_on_Harrenhal.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_triumphant.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-7)

Not long afterward, the Lannister host approaching from the west was outmaneuvered and destroyed in the massive [Battle by the Lakeshore](wiki:Battle_by_the_Lakeshore), on the west coast of the Gods Eye. When news finally reached Aemond and Criston at Harrenhal, they realized they could not hold it, and chose to abandon it themselves. Aemond began a one-dragon campaign of revenge on the riverlands using Vhagar, while Criston led their host south to try to link up with the main [Hightower](wiki:House_Hightower) army advancing north through the [Reach](wiki:Reach). Criston lost hundreds of men from harassment attacks, disease, and desertion, but before he could pass out of the riverlands, his army was intercepted at the [Butcher's Ball](wiki:Butcher's_Ball).(wiki:Aemond's_march_on_Harrenhal.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_triumphant.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-8)

## Quotes

> [Aemond] reached Harrenhal a day after Cole, and that night celebrated a great victory; Daemon and "his river scum" had fled rather than face his wroth, Aemond proclaimed. Small wonder then that when word of the [fall of King's Landing](wiki:Fall_of_King's_Landing) reached him, the prince felt thrice the fool. His fury was fearsome to behold.(wiki:Aemond's_march_on_Harrenhal.cite_ref-Rfabthe_dying_of_the_dragons_-_rhaenyra_triumphant.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-9)
>
> —writings of [Gyldayn](wiki:Gyldayn)
