## Origins

Before her wedding to [Androw Farman](wiki:Androw_Farman), [Rhaena Targaryen](wiki:Rhaena_Targaryen_(daughter_of_Aenys_I)) was married twice before. The first was to her younger brother Prince [Aegon Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_Targaryen_(son_of_Aenys_I)). In [43 AC](wiki:43_AC), Aegon was slain in [battle](wiki:Battle_Beneath_the_Gods_Eye) by their uncle King [Maegor I Targaryen](wiki:Maegor_I_Targaryen) while attempting to claim the throne from him. After Prince Aegon's death, the [Farmans](wiki:House_Farman) of [Fair Isle](wiki:Fair_Isle) granted the widowed Rhaena refuge. While there, she grew fond of both Lord [Marq Farman](wiki:Marq_Farman) and his younger son, [Androw Farman](wiki:Androw_Farman). In time, Maegor would summon Rhaena to [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing) to be one of his three "[Black Brides](wiki:Black_Brides)."(wiki:Wedding_of_Rhaena_Targaryen_and_Androw_Farman.cite_ref-Rfabthe_sons_of_the_dragon.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-0) After Maegor's death, the twice-widowed Rhaena chose to return to Fair Isle rather than remain in King's Landing.(wiki:Wedding_of_Rhaena_Targaryen_and_Androw_Farman.cite_ref-Rfabprince_into_king_-_the_ascension_of_jaehaerys_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0)

## Aftermath

The bride's mother, Queen [Alyssa Velaryon](wiki:Alyssa_Velaryon), was deeply offended at being neither informed of nor invited to her daughter's wedding, after which relationships between them were never as warm. Lord [Rogar Baratheon](wiki:Rogar_Baratheon), [Hand of the King](wiki:Hand_of_the_King) and soon-to-be second husband of Alyssa, was furious that Rhaena had remarried without his or the Crown's leave. One of his brothers and two of his nephews were as-yet unwed, which may explain Lord Rogar's fury. Rhaena's younger siblings, King [Jaehaerys I Targaryen](wiki:Jaehaerys_I_Targaryen) and [Alysanne Targaryen](wiki:Alysanne_Targaryen), rejoiced at the news and sent their gifts and congratulations to Fair Isle. They commanded that the [Red Keep](wiki:Red_Keep)'s bells be rung in celebration. Despite his celebrations, Jaehaerys did feel he should have been consulted, though he was less offended by this than the subsequent [union](wiki:Golden_Wedding) of Queen Alyssa and Lord Rogar.(wiki:Wedding_of_Rhaena_Targaryen_and_Androw_Farman.cite_ref-Rfabthe_year_of_the_three_brides_-_49_ac.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)
Although the wedding had apparently involved the traditional [bedding](wiki:Bedding) ceremony,(wiki:Wedding_of_Rhaena_Targaryen_and_Androw_Farman.cite_ref-Rfabthe_year_of_the_three_brides_-_49_ac.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3) questions soon arose over whether Rhaena and Androw's marriage had actually been consummated. After the queen's party left Fair Isle for [Casterly Rock](wiki:Casterly_Rock), a castle [septa](wiki:Septa) asked Samantha Stokeworth if the marriage had ever been consummated and who had witnessed the bedding. Androw was considered a curious choice in spouse, given his status as an unpromising second son of a minor lord compared to her, a widowed Targaryen queen. Asked why she had chosen such an unpromising spouse, Rhaena would later reply, "He was kind to me." Some suggested she took Androw as husband in part to repay Lord Marq for his kindness in offering refuge when Maegor ruled the Seven Kingdoms and the [Poor Fellows](wiki:Poor_Fellows) denounced her as a sinner. [Maester](wiki:Maester) [Smike](wiki:Smike), the master at Fair Isle, wrote that Rhaena found true love not with Androw but with his sister, Lady Elissa.(wiki:Wedding_of_Rhaena_Targaryen_and_Androw_Farman.cite_ref-Rfaba_surfeit_of_rulers.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0)
