## Appearances & Description

Pennytree is situated near the [Widow's Wash](wiki:Widow's_Wash) between two grassy hills known as the [Teats](wiki:Teats). The village is named for a huge old [oak](wiki:Oak) tree that grows by a [duck](wiki:Duck) pond, to which hundreds of [copper](wiki:Copper) [pennies](wiki:Currency) have been nailed. The village [holdfast](wiki:Holdfast), as strong as any in the [riverlands](wiki:Riverlands), has thick stone walls twelve feet high, behind which the people of Pennytree retreat at the sign of trouble.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-1)

## Origins

Pennytree was disputed between House [Bracken](wiki:House_Bracken) and [Blackwood](wiki:House_Blackwood).(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-2) The hills to either side of the village were historically known as the Teats or [the Mother's](wiki:Mother_(the_Seven)) Teats. King [Aegon IV Targaryen](wiki:Aegon_IV_Targaryen) dubbed them Barba's Teats in honor of his [mistress](wiki:Mistress), [Barba Bracken](wiki:Barba_Bracken). A few years later, however, Aegon renamed the hills for his new mistress, [Melissa Blackwood](wiki:Melissa_Blackwood). Blackwoods call the hills Missy's Teats, while Brackens still call them Barba's Teats.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-3)
Ser [Arlan of Pennytree](wiki:Arlan_of_Pennytree) was a [hedge knight](wiki:Hedge_knight) from the village.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Rthk.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0) His nephew and first [squire](wiki:Squire), [Roger](wiki:Roger_of_Pennytree), also came from Pennytree.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Rtss.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0)(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Rtmk.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-0) Arlan rarely spoke about Pennytree to his second squire, Dunk.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Rthk.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-1) By [211 AC](wiki:211_AC), Ser [Duncan the Tall](wiki:Duncan_the_Tall) had never visited Pennytree and was not sure of its location.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Rtss.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-1)
Pennytree became a [royal](wiki:Iron_Throne) fief about a century ago.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-4)

## Narrative Arc

### A Dance With Dragons[ ]

During the [War of the Five Kings](wiki:War_of_the_Five_Kings), raiders claiming to be king's men take Pennytree's [sheep](wiki:Sheep). Later, other king's men burn the village and its orchards. Some of these raiders kill the villagers [Harsley](wiki:Harsley), [Lacey](wiki:Lacey), and Ser [Ormond](wiki:Ormond_(knight)).(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-5)
After resolving the [siege of Riverrun](wiki:Siege_of_Riverrun), Ser [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) travels to [Raventree Hall](wiki:Raventree_Hall), which is besieged by [House Bracken](wiki:House_Bracken), on behalf of King [Tommen I Baratheon](wiki:Tommen_Baratheon). Lord [Jonos Bracken](wiki:Jonos_Bracken) shows Jaime a map of the lands he wishes to claim from his rival, Lord [Tytos Blackwood](wiki:Tytos_Blackwood). When Jaime asks about the village between the [Teats](wiki:Teats), Jonos explains he is not asking for Pennytree since it has been a royal fief for a hundred years.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-6)
Jaime decides to camp for the night at Pennytree after negotiating an end to the [siege of Raventree](wiki:Siege_of_Raventree). As Jaime's host travels to Pennytree, his new [hostage](wiki:Hostage), [Hoster Blackwood](wiki:Hoster_Blackwood), tells a bit of the history of the local area. When they reach the village, Jaime notes that Pennytree was burned in the war, but most of its houses have since been rebuilt. The inhabitants remain wary of visitors, however, and retreat to their holdfast. Jaime tells them they are king's men, but the villagers reply that it was king's men who harmed the village and its people before, and they will only open their gates after the army leaves. Though Ser [Kennos of Kayce](wiki:Kennos_of_Kayce) recommends attacking, Jaime decides it would be pointless. Jaime has his men shelter in Pennytree's houses, but orders them not to steal anything, as they have their own provisions.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-7)
While eating supper, Jaime tries to count the [pennies](wiki:Currency) nailed to the [oak](wiki:Oak) and wonders about its origins, but decides not to ask Hoster about it. At midnight, Jaime's scouts apprehend [Brienne of Tarth](wiki:Brienne_Tarth) on the outskirts of the village. Upon meeting Jaime, Brienne pleads for him to help her save [Sansa Stark](wiki:Sansa_Stark) from the [Hound](wiki:Sandor_Clegane).(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-8) It is later reported to [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing) that Jaime left his host and departed with a woman.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd54.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-0)

## Quotes

Dunk had never seen the old man's Pennytree. Ser [Arlan](wiki:Arlan_of_Pennytree) seldom spoke of it, no more than Dunk was wont to speak of [Flea Bottom](wiki:Flea_Bottom).(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Rtmk.7B.7B.7B2.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-1)
Jaime: What about this village here, between the [Teats](wiki:Teats)? Jonos: Pennytree. That was [ours](wiki:House_Bracken) once too, but it's been a [royal](wiki:Iron_Throne) fief for a hundred years. Leave that out.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-9)
Pennytree proved to be a much larger village than he had anticipated. [The war](wiki:War_of_the_Five_Kings) had been here too; blackened orchards and the scorched shells of broken houses testified to that. But for every home in ruins three more had been rebuilt. Through the gathering blue dusk Jaime glimpsed fresh thatch upon a score of roofs, and doors made of raw green wood. Between a [duck](wiki:Duck) pond and a blacksmith's forge, he came upon the tree that gave the place its name, an [oak](wiki:Oak) ancient and tall. Its gnarled roots twisted in and out of the earth like a nest of slow brown serpents, and hundreds of old [copper](wiki:Copper) pennies had been nailed to its huge trunk.(wiki:Pennytree.cite_ref-Radwd48.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-10)
