## Narrative Arc

### A Feast for Crows[ ]

As the [captain's sister](wiki:Captain's_sister) is repainting her oaken shield, [Brienne of Tarth](wiki:Brienne_of_Tarth) decides to stay overnight in the Seven Swords. She is given a room on the second floor. A [woman with a liver colored birthmark on her face](wiki:Darke_(Seven_Swords)) helps her with her bath. Brienne asks her about the [Darklyns](wiki:Darklyn), and the woman tells Brienne that the lordly Darklyns are all gone.
After her bath, Brienne walks to the [Dun Fort](wiki:Dun_Fort) to speak to the lord. She returns to the Seven Swords's common room for dinner, finding it crowded, but a [dwarf brother](wiki:Dwarf_brother) lets her have his seat. She tells the brother of her quest to find [her sister](wiki:Sansa_Stark) and [a fool](wiki:Dontos_Hollard), and he tells her that he overheard a man called [Nimble Dick](wiki:Nimble_Dick) in [Maidenpool](wiki:Maidenpool) at the [Stinking Goose](wiki:Stinking_Goose) bragging that he had "fooled a [fool](wiki:Fool)" seeking passage for three across the [narrow Sea](wiki:Narrow_Sea). By the time the common room empties, most of the talk turns to the recent death of Lord [Tywin Lannister](wiki:Tywin_Lannister) and who will rule until Tommen comes of age. When the innkeep spits into the fire at the mention of the oathbreaker [Jaime Lannister](wiki:Jaime_Lannister) ruling, Brienne gets up and leaves.
The next day, Brienne is drinking a breakfast of milk and honey mixed with three raw eggs in the inn's common room when the captain's sister arrives and delivers the repainted shield. Afterwards, Brienne departs the Seven Swords and heads to Maidenpool in search of Nimble Dick.(wiki:Seven_Swords.cite_ref-Raffc9.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-1)
