## Origins

### Early marriage

Alys married Prince [Maegor Targaryen](wiki:Maegor_I_Targaryen) in [39 AC](wiki:39_AC) in a [Valyrian](wiki:Valyria) [wedding ceremony](wiki:Marriage) officiated by Dowager Queen [Visenya Targaryen](wiki:Visenya_Targaryen), as the [septon](wiki:Septon) at [Dragonstone](wiki:Dragonstone) refused to perform the wedding. As Maegor was already married to Lady [Ceryse Hightower](wiki:Ceryse_Hightower), whom he claimed to be barren, Alys's marriage to Maegor was a [polygamous](wiki:Polygamy) one. As such, their marriage angered many. Maegor quarreled bitterly with his brother, King [Aenys I Targaryen](wiki:Aenys_I_Targaryen), who had neither known of the marriage prior to the ceremony, nor given his leave for it. The [High Septon](wiki:High_Septon_(Aenys_I)) denounced the marriage as sin and fornication and called Alys *"this whore of Harroway"*, and many of the [pious](wiki:Faith_of_the_Seven) [lords](wiki:Lord) in the realm similarly openly began to refer to Alys as *"Maegor's Whore"*. King Aenys furiously gave his brother a choice: set Alys aside or go into exile for five years. Maegor chose the latter option. In [40 AC](wiki:Years_after_Aegon's_Conquest) Alys left [Westeros](wiki:Westeros) for [Pentos](wiki:Pentos), accompanying Maegor in his exile.(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rfabthe_sons_of_the_dragon.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aenys_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-1)

Alys's husband was the first to return to the [Seven Kingdoms](wiki:Seven_Kingdoms). In early [42 AC](wiki:42_AC) King Aenys I died on Dragonstone. After he had been cremated and buried, Dowager Queen Visenya flew to Pentos on the back of her dragon, [Vhagar](wiki:Vhagar), to bring Maegor back to [Westeros](wiki:Westeros) and claim the [Iron Throne](wiki:Iron_Throne). In [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing), Maegor faced the [Faith Militant](wiki:Faith_Militant) who had risen in [rebellion](wiki:Faith_Militant_uprising) against Aenys the year before. Maegor fought seven [Warrior's Sons](wiki:Warrior's_Sons) in a [trial of seven](wiki:Trial_of_seven) and won, but fell into a coma. On the twenty-eighth day of Maegor's coma, Alys returned from Pentos. She brought [Tyanna of the Tower](wiki:Tyanna_of_the_Tower) and six hundred [sellswords](wiki:Mercenary) with her. Tyanna was rumored to be the [paramour](wiki:Paramour) of Alys.(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rfabthe_sons_of_the_dragon.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_aenys_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-2)(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_maegor_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-2) When Maegor took Tyanna as his third wife later that year, Alys presided over the [bedding ceremony](wiki:Bedding) and joined Maegor and Tyanna in their wedding night.(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rfabthe_sons_of_the_dragon.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-4)

### Pregnancy and death

In [44 AC](wiki:44_AC)(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-5) Alys became pregnant. [Grand Maester](wiki:Grand_Maester) [Desmond](wiki:Desmond_(Grand_Maester)) confined her to her bed, assisted by two [septas](wiki:Septas), a midwife, and the queen's sisters [Jeyne](wiki:Jeyne_Harroway) and [Hanna](wiki:Hanna_Harroway), and per Maegor's insistence, both Queen [Ceryse](wiki:Ceryse_Hightower) and Queen [Tyanna](wiki:Tyanna_of_the_Tower) served her as well. However, after three months Alys went into labor, bleeding heavily. She gave birth to a stillborn monstrosity, eyeless and twisted. In his rage, Maegor ordered the executions of those in charge of the queen's care, sparing only Alys's sisters.(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rfabthe_sons_of_the_dragon.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-5)(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_maegor_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-3)

Following these executions, Maegor was approached by Queen Tyanna, who claimed the king had been deceived. She informed the king that the stillborn boy had not been of his seed, but the result of one of Alys's many affairs. She claimed that Alys, after seeing the old, embittered, and childless Queen Ceryse Hightower return to court, feared the same fate awaited her unless she gave the king a healthy son. According to Tyanna, Alys had asked her father, Lord [Lucas Harroway](wiki:Lucas_Harroway), Maegor's [Hand](wiki:Hand_of_the_King), for aid, and so, on the nights that Maegor was sharing a bed with his two other queens, Lucas sent men of confirmed fertility to Alys's chambers. When Maegor refused to believe these claims, Tyanna provided a list of twenty names as proof. The men were [tortured](wiki:Torture) in secret so Alys and her father would not be aware, and all but two confessed to their crimes.(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rfabthe_sons_of_the_dragon.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-6)(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_maegor_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-4)

Queen Alys was dragged from her bed by [knights](wiki:Knight) of the [Kingsguard](wiki:Kingsguard), her sisters being cut down when they tried to intervene. Her father was flung from the [Tower of the Hand](wiki:Tower_of_the_Hand).(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-6) Alys's brothers, uncles, and cousins were put on the spikes that line the dry moat around [Maegor's Holdfast](wiki:Maegor's_Holdfast). Alys herself received the worst death of all; she was given over to Tyanna. Her death is said to have taken a fortnight of agonizing torture, for which Maegor himself was present. After her death, Alys body was cut into seven parts and mounted on spikes above the seven gates of [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing).(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rfabthe_sons_of_the_dragon.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-7)(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_maegor_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-5)

King Maegor departed the city soon after, assembling a force and marching on the lightly held [Harrenhal](wiki:Harrenhal). It's [castellan](wiki:Castellan), a cousin of Alys, opened the gates at the king's approach. Maegor had the entire garrison put to the sword, along with every man, woman, and child with any drop of [Harroway blood](wiki:House_Harroway). Next he went to [Lord Harroway's Town](wiki:Lord_Harroway's_Town), doing the same.(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rfabthe_sons_of_the_dragon.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-8)(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_targaryen_kings:_maegor_i.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-6)

In [48 AC](wiki:48_AC), Queen Tyanna confessed that she [poisoned](wiki:Poison) Alys's child in the womb.(wiki:Alys_Harroway.cite_ref-Rfabthe_sons_of_the_dragon.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-9)
