## Origins

King [Gyles III Gardener](wiki:Gyles_III_Gardener) died of a bloody flux.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Rtwoiafthe_reach:_andals_in_the_reach.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_6-0)
Part of the [Doctrine of Exceptionalism](wiki:Doctrine_of_Exceptionalism) included the belief that [Targaryens](wiki:House_Targaryen) did not die of such diseases as the bloody flux.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Rfabthe_long_reign_-_jaehaerys_and_alysanne:_policy.2C_progeny.2C_and_pain.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_7-0)

## Narrative Arc

### A Clash of Kings[ ]

After the [riot of King's Landing](wiki:Riot_of_King's_Landing), [Jacelyn Bywater](wiki:Jacelyn_Bywater) reports that the bloody flux is spreading through the pot shops of [Pisswater Bend](wiki:Pisswater_Bend) in [King's Landing](wiki:King's_Landing).(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Racok41.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_8-0)

### A Storm of Swords[ ]

During the [siege of Meereen](wiki:Siege_of_Meereen), the troops of [Daenerys Targaryen](wiki:Daenerys_Targaryen) face starvation and disease. Ser [Jorah Mormont](wiki:Jorah_Mormont) reports three cases of bloody flux among their men.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Rasos57.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_9-0)

### A Dance with Dragons[ ]

In [Meereen](wiki:Meereen), [Quaithe](wiki:Quaithe) [prophetically](wiki:Prophecy) warns Queen Daenerys Targaryen, "Soon comes the pale mare..."(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd11.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_10-0)
The bloody flux spreads through [Astapor](wiki:Astapor),(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd25.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_11-0) killing three out of four men.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd30.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-1)
A dying Astapori rider arrives in Meereen atop a pale [mare](wiki:Horse), warning that Astapor is burning. He is brought to the [Temple of the Graces](wiki:Temple_of_the_Graces) by the [Unsullied](wiki:Unsullied), and though the [Blue Graces](wiki:Blue_Graces) treat him for an arrow wound, he dies within an hour. The Blue Grace [Ezzara](wiki:Ezzara) tells Daenerys that the man's fever was not from his wound, but that he had soiled himself many times, with blood in his stool. The [Green Grace](wiki:Green_Grace), [Galazza Galare](wiki:Galazza_Galare), warns Daenerys that the man has been sent by the [gods](wiki:Gods) as a sign. Daenerys is initially dismissive of her words, but then connects the rider to Quaithe's warning, and becomes increasingly concerned.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd30.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-2)
The bloody flux is brought in numbers to Meereen by the Astapori refugees that seek protection in that city. Warned about the dangers of letting the refugees in, Daenerys decides to forbid their entrance, but allows them to camp outside the city,(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd30.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-3) and sends them healers.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-2) However, the bloody flux is already spreading, killing a hundred men a night,(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-3) and ravages both Meereen and its [besiegers](wiki:Second_siege_of_Meereen) from [Yunkai](wiki:Yunkai) and [New Ghis](wiki:New_Ghis).(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd55.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-1)(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd57.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_12-0) The disease becomes known as "the pale mare", after its harbinger.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd55.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-2)(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd57.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_12-1)
In the Yunkish camp outside Meereen, the [enslaved](wiki:Slavery) [Tyrion Lannister](wiki:Tyrion_Lannister) helps tend to his overseer, [Nurse](wiki:Nurse), when the man becomes sick with the pale mare. Tyrion feeds Nurse soup, allegedly to rehydrate him, but Tyrion puts [poisonous](wiki:Poison) [mushrooms](wiki:Tyrion's_mushrooms) in the broth, and Nurse dies. When their master, [Yezzan zo Qaggaz](wiki:Yezzan_zo_Qaggaz), also becomes ill with the pale mare, Tyrion, [Penny](wiki:Penny), and [Jorah Mormont](wiki:Jorah_Mormont) are able to escape their captivity, finding safety with the [Second Sons](wiki:Second_Sons).(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd57.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_12-2) Tyrion worries that Penny, who is sleeping a lot and claims to be tired, may be sick. However, he does not dare to ask if she is feverish, since he knows the Second Sons would drive her away in a moment if they thought she had the pale mare, and perhaps return all three of the escaped slaves to Yezzan's heirs.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd66.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-1)
In the [Dothraki Sea](wiki:Dothraki_Sea), Daenerys becomes sick with vomiting, diarrhea, and fever. However, since the symptoms came upon her weeks after she left Meereen, they are probably not because of the pale mare, but due to the likely [poisonous](wiki:Poison) green [berries](wiki:Berries) she ate immediately before she became ill.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd71.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_13-0)

## Quotes

Ezzara: We cannot be certain, but it may be that [Meereen](wiki:Meereen) has more to fear than the spears of the [Yunkai'i](wiki:Yunkai'i).
Galazza: We must pray. The [gods](wiki:Gods) sent this man to us. He comes as a harbinger. He comes as a sign. Daenerys: A sign of what? Galazza: A sign of wroth and ruin.
She had sent them healers, [Blue Graces](wiki:Blue_Graces) and [spell](wiki:Spell)-singers and barber-surgeons, but some of those had sickened as well, and none of their arts had slowed the galloping progression of the flux that had come on the pale mare. Separating the healthy from the sick had proved impractical as well. Her [Stalwart Shields](wiki:Stalwart_Shields) had tried, pulling husbands away from wives and children from their mothers, even as the [Astapori](wiki:Astapor) wept and kicked and pelted them with stones. A few days later, the sick were dead and the healthy ones were sick. Dividing the one from the other had accomplished nothing.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd36.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-4)
From here he could see four lesser pyramids, the city's western walls, and the camps of the [Yunkishmen](wiki:Yunkishmen) by the shores of [Slaver's Bay](wiki:Slaver's_Bay), where a thick column of greasy smoke twisted upward like some monstrous serpent. The Yunkishmen burning their dead, he realized. The pale mare is galloping through their [siege camps](wiki:Second_siege_of_Meereen).(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd55.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-3)
Much and more can change in two days. Two days ago [Nurse](wiki:Nurse) had been hale and healthy. Two days ago [Yezzan](wiki:Yezzan_zo_Qaggaz) had not heard the pale mare's ghostly hoofbeats.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd57.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_12-3)
[Yezzan](wiki:Yezzan_zo_Qaggaz) has more urgent matters to concern him than three missing [slaves](wiki:Slave). He's riding the pale mare.(wiki:Bloody_flux.cite_ref-Radwd57.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_12-4)
