## Narrative Arc

### A Dance with Dragons[ ]

While staying at the manse of Illyrio Mopatis in Pentos, a drunk Tyrion Lannister discovers seven poisonous mushrooms growing in the garden. Thinking they might be a message from [the gods](wiki:The_Faith_of_the_Seven), he picks them, wraps them in a glove, and stuffs them in his pocket. Later at dinner, Tyrion is skeptical when black mushrooms are prepared by Illyrio's cook, but after a conversation about poison, the magister assures him these mushrooms are not poisonous, and eats several.(wiki:Tyrion's_mushrooms.cite_ref-Radwd1.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-1)
At some point, Tyrion stores the mushrooms in the toe of his boot. While heading down the [Rhoyne](wiki:Rhoyne) on the [Shy Maid](wiki:Shy_Maid), an angry Tyrion is tempted to slip the mushrooms into [Griff](wiki:Griff)'s supper.(wiki:Tyrion's_mushrooms.cite_ref-Radwd18.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_2-0) After being kidnapped by Ser [Jorah Mormont](wiki:Jorah_Mormont), Tyrion thinks he could eat the mushrooms and thereby avoid being taken alive to his sister, Queen [Cersei Lannister](wiki:Cersei_Lannister).(wiki:Tyrion's_mushrooms.cite_ref-Radwd27.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_3-0) Tyrion is later sold to [Yezzan zo Qaggaz](wiki:Yezzan_zo_Qaggaz) on the auction block outside [Meereen](wiki:Meereen). Having no faith that [Daenerys Targaryen](wiki:Daenerys_Targaryen) could rescue him, he considers using the mushrooms on [Penny](wiki:Penny) and himself.(wiki:Tyrion's_mushrooms.cite_ref-Radwd47.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_4-0)
When Yezzan's hated overseer, [Nurse](wiki:Nurse), contracts the [pale mare](wiki:Pale_mare), Tyrion attends him, as the other slaves refuse to go near him. Nurse succumbs to the disease, but Tyrion is implied to have hastened his end by poisoning him. Tyrion serves him soup with slivers of mushroom in the broth, telling him "A [Lannister](wiki:House_Lannister) always pays his debts."(wiki:Tyrion's_mushrooms.cite_ref-Radwd57.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_5-0) It is unknown whether Tyrion still has any more mushrooms.

## Quotes

Delicious, and deadly.(wiki:Tyrion's_mushrooms.cite_ref-Radwd1.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-2)
The pain is not so much, I am told. Some cramping in the gut, a sudden ache behind the eyes, and it is done. Better a mushroom than a [sword](wiki:Sword) through your neck, is it not so? Why die with the taste of blood in your mouth when it could be butter and garlic?(wiki:Tyrion's_mushrooms.cite_ref-Radwd1.7B.7B.7B3.7D.7D.7D.7B.7B.7B4.7D.7D.7D_1-3)
