## Narrative Arc

[Catelyn Stark](wiki:Catelyn_Stark) seeks out her husband [Eddard](wiki:Eddard_Stark) in the [godswood](wiki:Godswood) following his return to [Winterfell](wiki:Winterfell). She knows her husband always goes there after executing a man. She finds the godswood dark and unsettling compared to the sunny one she remembers from her childhood home in [Riverrun](wiki:Riverrun). Unlike [House Tully](wiki:House_Tully), who follow the [Faith of the Seven](wiki:Faith_of_the_Seven), [House Stark](wiki:House_Stark) keep faith with the [old gods](wiki:Old_gods).

Catelyn finds Ned polishing his ancestral greatsword, [Ice](wiki:Ice), under the [heart tree](wiki:Heart_tree) at the center of the grove. He asks after the children, and Catelyn tells him they are deciding on the names for their new wolves. Ned notes that [the man](wiki:Gared) he executed is the fourth deserter this year. He adds that the man was half mad, that something had put a fear into him so deep that he could not reach him. The [Night's Watch](wiki:Night's_Watch) is dwindling, down to less than a thousand men, not just from desertions, but from ranging casualties. One day Ned may have to call his banners to fight [Mance Rayder](wiki:Mance_Rayder) himself. Catelyn warns him that there are darker things [beyond the Wall](wiki:Beyond_the_Wall). Ned replies that the [Others](wiki:Others) have been dead for eight thousand years, and that Maester [Luwin](wiki:Luwin) claims they never existed at all. Catelyn replies that nobody had seen [direwolves](wiki:Direwolf) until today.

When Ned asks why Catelyn has come, she tells him that [Jon Arryn](wiki:Jon_Arryn), his foster father and her brother-in-law, is dead. The news came in King [Robert](wiki:Robert_I_Baratheon)'s own hand. When asked, Catelyn explains that Jon Arryn's widow—Catelyn's sister [Lysa Arryn](wiki:Lysa_Arryn)—and [her son](wiki:Robert_Arryn) have returned to the [Eyrie](wiki:Eyrie), and Catelyn says that she thinks her sister should not be alone and should have gone back to Riverrun. Ned urges Catelyn to take the children to keep her sister company, but then Catelyn informs him that Robert Baratheon has also written to say he is coming to Winterfell. This news gladdens Ned; it has been nine years since he last saw his old friend. However, Catelyn is worried about the omen of a [direwolf](wiki:House_Stark) found dead in the snow with an [antler](wiki:House_Baratheon) buried in its throat.

With Robert coming, Catelyn confirms with Ned that they should send word to his brother [Benjen](wiki:Benjen_Stark) on the [Wall](wiki:Wall). Then Catelyn informs Ned that Robert's wife, Queen [Cersei Lannister](wiki:Cersei_Lannister), their children, and her [Lannister](wiki:House_Lannister) brothers are also coming. Ned does not like the Lannisters because they came to Robert's cause only after [victory](wiki:Sack_of_King's_Landing) was certain. Eddard is looking forward to seeing the children and then announces his worry about feeding them all.
